SEON | Fraud Prevention & AML Compliance Consent Details [#IABV2SETTINGS#] About This website uses cookies SEON and our partners use cookies to enable general website functions, remember your preferences, analyze interactions, and display relevant content and ads. By clicking [Allow all], you consent to these cookies and confirm that you've read and understood our Cookie Notice. Consent Selection Necessary Preferences Statistics Personalization and Marketing Show details Necessary 26 Necessary cookies make our website usable by enabling website functions. The website functions requested by you do not work without these cookies. Cookiebot 2 Learn more about this provider 1.gif Used to count the number of sessions to the website, necessary for optimizing CMP product delivery. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : Pixel Tracker CookieConsent Stores the user's cookie consent state for the current domain Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie Google 4 Learn more about this provider Some of the data collected by this provider is for the purposes of personalization and measuring advertising effectiveness. test_cookie Used to check if the user's browser supports cookies. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie _ga Registers a unique ID that is used to generate statistical data on how the visitor uses the website. Maximum Storage Duration : 2 years Type : HTTP Cookie _ga_# Used by Google Analytics to collect data on the number of times a user has visited the website as well as dates for the first and most recent visit. Maximum Storage Duration : 2 years Type : HTTP Cookie _gid Registers a unique ID that is used to generate statistical data on how the visitor uses the website. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie LinkedIn 1 Learn more about this provider li_gc Stores the user's cookie consent state for the current domain Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie cdn.seon.io 1 cookietest This cookie is used to determine if the visitor has accepted the cookie consent box. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie demo.arcade.software 1 sentry-offline#queue Detects and logs potential errors on third-party provided functions on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : IndexedDB g2.com g2crowd.com hsforms.com vimeo.com workable.com 7 __cf_bm [x7] This cookie is used to distinguish between humans and bots. This is beneficial for the website, in order to make valid reports on the use of their website. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie hsforms.com vimeo.com 3 _cfuvid [x3] This cookie is a part of the services provided by Cloudflare - Including load-balancing, deliverance of website content and serving DNS connection for website operators. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie seon.io 3 __mp_opt_in_out_# Stores the user's cookie consent state for the current domain Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie debug This cookie is used to detect errors on the website - this information is sent to the website's support staff in order to optimize the visitor's experience on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage wpEmojiSettingsSupports This cookie is part of a bundle of cookies which serve the purpose of content delivery and presentation. The cookies keep the correct state of font, blog/picture sliders, color themes and other website settings. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage www.g2.com 3 datadome Used in context with the website's BotManager. The BotManager detects, categorizes and compiles reports on potential bots trying to access the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie AWSALB Registers which server-cluster is serving the visitor. This is used in context with load balancing, in order to optimize user experience. Maximum Storage Duration : 7 days Type : HTTP Cookie AWSALBCORS Registers which server-cluster is serving the visitor. This is used in context with load balancing, in order to optimize user experience. Maximum Storage Duration : 7 days Type : HTTP Cookie x.clearbitjs.com 1 pfjs%3Acookies Used to check if the user's browser supports cookies. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie Preferences 2 Preferences cookies enable our website to remember information that changes the way the website behaves or looks, like your preferred language or the region that you are in. Acast 1 Learn more about this provider AcastLang This cookie is used to determine the preferred language of the visitor and sets the language accordingly on the website, if possible. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage Hubspot 1 Learn more about this provider messagesUtk Stores a unique ID string for each chat-box session. This allows the website-support to see previous issues and reconnect with the previous supporter. Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie Statistics 17 Statistics cookies help us to understand how you interact with and use our website by collecting and reporting statistical or analytics information. G2Crowd 1 Learn more about this provider g2tracking Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage Google 1 Learn more about this provider Some of the data collected by this provider is for the purposes of personalization and measuring advertising effectiveness. _gat Used by Google Analytics to throttle request rate Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie Hotjar 4 Learn more about this provider hjActiveViewportIds This cookie contains an ID string on the current session. This contains non-personal information on what subpages the visitor enters – this information is used to optimize the visitor's experience. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage hjViewportId Saves the user's screen size in order to adjust the size of images on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage _hjSession_# Collects statistics on the visitor's visits to the website, such as the number of visits, average time spent on the website and what pages have been read. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie _hjSessionUser_# Collects statistics on the visitor's visits to the website, such as the number of visits, average time spent on the website and what pages have been read. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie Hubspot 4 Learn more about this provider __hssc Identifies if the cookie data needs to be updated in the visitor's browser. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie __hssrc Used to recognise the visitor's browser upon reentry on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie __hstc Sets a unique ID for the session. This allows the website to obtain data on visitor behaviour for statistical purposes. Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie hubspotutk Sets a unique ID for the session. This allows the website to obtain data on visitor behaviour for statistical purposes. Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie Workable 1 Learn more about this provider wmc Used to track which users have shown interest in what job postings. The cookie ensures that the most relevant job postings are shown to the specific user. Maximum Storage Duration : 400 days Type : HTTP Cookie demo.arcade.software 2 ajs_anonymous_id This cookie is used to count how many times a website has been visited by different visitors - this is done by assigning the visitor an ID, so the visitor does not get registered twice. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage ajs_anonymous_id This cookie is used to identify a specific visitor - this information is used to identify the number of specific visitors on a website. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie g2.com 1 _g2_session_id Sets a unique ID for the session. This allows the website to obtain data on visitor behaviour for statistical purposes. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie seon.io 1 signup-statistics-data Pending Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage www.g2.com 1 events_distinct_id Sets a unique ID for the session. This allows the website to obtain data on visitor behaviour for statistical purposes. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie x.clearbitjs.com 1 cb%3Atest Collects data on the user's visits to the website, such as the number of visits, average time spent on the website and what pages have been loaded with the purpose of generating reports for optimising the website content. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie Personalization and Marketing 44 Personalization and Marketing cookies are used to track you on our website or across websites and devices, and to display you content and ads that are relevant and engaging for you on our websites or third-party websites, including on social media. Google 4 Learn more about this provider Some of the data collected by this provider is for the purposes of personalization and measuring advertising effectiveness. IDE Used by Google DoubleClick to register and report the website user's actions after viewing or clicking one of the advertiser's ads with the purpose of measuring the efficacy of an ad and to present targeted ads to the user. Maximum Storage Duration : 400 days Type : HTTP Cookie NID Registers a unique ID that identifies a returning user's device. The ID is used for targeted ads. Maximum Storage Duration : 6 months Type : HTTP Cookie pagead/1p-user-list/# Tracks if the user has shown interest in specific products or events across multiple websites and detects how the user navigates between sites. This is used for measurement of advertisement efforts and facilitates payment of referral-fees between websites. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : Pixel Tracker _gcl_au Used by Google AdSense for experimenting with advertisement efficiency across websites using their services. Maximum Storage Duration : 3 months Type : HTTP Cookie Hubspot 1 Learn more about this provider __ptq.gif Sends data to the marketing platform Hubspot about the visitor's device and behaviour. Tracks the visitor across devices and marketing channels. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : Pixel Tracker LinkedIn 2 Learn more about this provider bcookie Used by the social networking service, LinkedIn, for tracking the use of embedded services. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie lidc Used by the social networking service, LinkedIn, for tracking the use of embedded services. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie Twitter Inc. 2 Learn more about this provider i/jot/embeds Sets a unique ID for the visitor, that allows third party advertisers to target the visitor with relevant advertisement. This pairing service is provided by third party advertisement hubs, which facilitates real-time bidding for advertisers. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : Pixel Tracker RichHistory Collects data on visitors' preferences and behaviour on the website - This information is used make content and advertisement more relevant to the specific visitor. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage YouTube 23 Learn more about this provider #-# Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage __Secure-ROLLOUT_TOKEN Pending Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie iU5q-!O9@$ Registers a unique ID to keep statistics of what videos from YouTube the user has seen. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage LAST_RESULT_ENTRY_KEY Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie LogsDatabaseV2:V#||LogsRequestsStore Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : IndexedDB nextId Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie remote_sid Necessary for the implementation and functionality of YouTube video-content on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie requests Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie ServiceWorkerLogsDatabase#SWHealthLog Necessary for the implementation and functionality of YouTube video-content on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : IndexedDB TESTCOOKIESENABLED Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie VISITOR_INFO1_LIVE Tries to estimate the users' bandwidth on pages with integrated YouTube videos. Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie YSC Registers a unique ID to keep statistics of what videos from YouTube the user has seen. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie yt.innertube::nextId Registers a unique ID to keep statistics of what videos from YouTube the user has seen. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage ytidb::LAST_RESULT_ENTRY_KEY Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage YtIdbMeta#databases Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : IndexedDB yt-player-user-settings Pending Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-cast-available Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-cast-installed Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-connected-devices Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-device-id Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-fast-check-period Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-session-app Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-session-name Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage demo.arcade.software 2 ajs_user_id This cookie is used to collect data on the visitor's behavior on the website - this information can be used to assign the visitor to a visitor segment, based on common preferences. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie ajs_user_id Collects data on visitors' preferences and behaviour on the website - This information is used make content and advertisement more relevant to the specific visitor. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage demo.arcade.software x.clearbitjs.com 3 __tld__ [x3] Used to track visitors on multiple websites, in order to present relevant advertisement based on the visitor's preferences. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie seon.io 2 __mpq_#_# Collects data on user behaviour and interaction in order to optimize the website and make advertisement on the website more relevant. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage mp_#_mixpanel Pending Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie tag.clearbitscripts.com 2 cb_group_properties Collects data on visitor behaviour from multiple websites, in order to present more relevant advertisement - This also allows the website to limit the number of times that they are shown the same advertisement. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage cb_user_traits Collects data on visitor behaviour from multiple websites, in order to present more relevant advertisement - This also allows the website to limit the number of times that they are shown the same advertisement. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage x.clearbitjs.com 3 cb_anonymous_id Collects data on visitor behaviour from multiple websites, in order to present more relevant advertisement - This also allows the website to limit the number of times that they are shown the same advertisement. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie cb_group_id Collects data on visitors. This information is used to assign visitors into segments, making website advertisement more efficient. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie cb_user_id Collects data on visitor behaviour from multiple websites, in order to present more relevant advertisement - This also allows the website to limit the number of times that they are shown the same advertisement. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie Functional 3 Functional cookies are used to ensure the proper functioning of our website. cdn.seon.io 3 inersc2a2k Pending Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage f3k2kqs7xc Pending Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie ytkufm9oaz#ytkufm9oaz Pending Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : IndexedDB Cross-domain consent [#BULK_CONSENT_DOMAINS_COUNT#] [#BULK_CONSENT_TITLE#] List of domains your consent applies to: [#BULK_CONSENT_DOMAINS#] Cookie declaration last updated on 12/4/24 by Cookiebot [#IABV2_TITLE#] [#IABV2_BODY_INTRO#] [#IABV2_BODY_LEGITIMATE_INTEREST_INTRO#] [#IABV2_BODY_PREFERENCE_INTRO#] [#IABV2_LABEL_PURPOSES#] [#IABV2_BODY_PURPOSES_INTRO#] [#IABV2_BODY_PURPOSES#] [#IABV2_LABEL_FEATURES#] [#IABV2_BODY_FEATURES_INTRO#] [#IABV2_BODY_FEATURES#] [#IABV2_LABEL_PARTNERS#] [#IABV2_BODY_PARTNERS_INTRO#] [#IABV2_BODY_PARTNERS#] Scope . This cookie notice (“Cookie Notice”) provides you with information on how SEON Technologies Kft. (“SEON” or “we”) and our social media advertising, analytics, etc. partners use cookies on seon.io and docs.seon.io. Cookies . Cookies are small text files that are sent to your device by the browser upon request of the websites. When this notice mentions cookies it should be understood to include similar technologies (e.g. pixel tags, web beacons, local storage, etc.). The cookies that we provide or set on your device while you are visiting our websites are called first party cookies. The cookies that our partners provide or set on your device are third party cookies. Each cookie lasts for a different period of time. Session cookies will last only while your browser is open. When you close the browser, this cookie will be deleted automatically. Persistent cookies will survive even after closing the browser. For example, we will recognize your device via these cookies when you open the browser again. Further information about cookies. Learn more about the purposes of cookies, the duration of the operation of cookies, our social media, advertising, analytics, etc. partners that use cookies on our websites under “Details”. Data collected about you. We and our partners process the cookie ID and related data such as information about your device, the functioning of our website, your preferences etc. Please note that normally we are not able to identify you based on these data, therefore they are normally not considered personal data. If, on the basis of specific circumstances, we are able to identify you based on these data, we inform you that we process your personal data in accordance with our Privacy Notice. Recipients . SEON shares the cookie ID and related data with the following recipients: cloud providers, customer relationship management (CRM) providers, integration tool providers, instant messaging providers, video conferencing tool providers, UI/UX tool providers, social media providers, online advertising platforms and agencies, marketing and analytics tools providers. For further information about our data sharing practices please see our Privacy Notice. Your choices. We use “Functionality and Preferences”, “Personalization and Marketing” and “Statistics” cookies on the basis of you consent. You can at any time, provide, change or withdraw your consent from these cookies under “Details”. Please note that our use of “Necessary” cookies is not subject to your consent, we use them by default, as without these cookies, our website functions requested by you do not work. Device fingerprinting. We use device fingerprinting technology for ensuring information security of our services and for preventing frauds. For further information please see our Privacy Notice. Further information about our privacy practices. Our Privacy Notice complements this Cookie Notice. Learn more about who we are, how you can contact us or our data protection officer, how we process personal data, what  are your rights regarding your personal data, and what are our data protection and privacy practices in our Privacy Notice. Do not sell or share my personal information Reject Allow selection Customize Allow all Menu Close Products Fraud Digital Footprint Understand your customers’ online presence using email, phone and IP data Device Intelligence Analyze and track device and behavioral biometric data patterns AI & Machine Learning Deploy transparent rules to prevent evolving fraud patterns in real time AML Compliance Customer Screening & Monitoring Simplify compliance with an integrated AML and fraud platform Case Management Eliminate manual processes and fragmented tools to achieve faster, more efficient investigations Integrations Shopify Seamlessly integrate fraud prevention into your Shopify store AWS Integrate Fraud Prevention Seamlessly with SEON’s AWS Partnership Solutions Industries Financial Services Safeguard your customers from fraud at every step, from onboarding to transaction monitoring Fintech Scale and onboard new customers with confidence Payments Block fraudulent transactions in real time iGaming Eliminate iGaming threats without sacrificing player experience Retail Reduce chargebacks & stop e-commerce fraud Use Cases Bonus Abuse Block bonus abuse before it begins Fake & Synthetic IDs Detect suspicious users upfront Account Takeover Block unauthorized access before it impacts your customers AI Automation Detect fraud patterns that human eyes can’t Registration & Onboarding Onboard the right customers quickly and without friction Login & Activity Monitoring Keep customers and your business safe Transaction Monitoring Stay compliant and protect honest customers with real-time monitoring Case Studies Resources Fraud & Risk Managers Articles Stay informed on the latest fraud and risk prevention insights Guides Access practical guides to strengthen fraud and risk detection Case Studies Discover success stories from the world’s most innovative companies Comparisons Compare fraud and risk software solutions Events Meet up with our experts at an industry conference Webinars Learn from industry leaders to gain practical insights Dictionary Understand essential fraud and risk industry terms All Resources Explore the full resource library Developers Integration Guide Easily integrate by following a detailed step-by-step guide API Documentation Integrate quickly using one API Technical Knowledge Base Learn more about SEON and how to optimize your setup Github Access our open-source fraud prevention tools Company Company About Us Learn about our mission and team Contact Us Get in touch with our experts Careers Join our team News Latest updates in fraud prevention Mediaroom Read the latest SEON news and media stories Partners Partners Become a SEON partner Pricing Speak with an expert Login Your First Line of Defense Against Fraud & Money Laundering SEON is the leading global fraud prevention solution that stops fraud before it happens, at every point in your customer journey. Speak with an expert Trusted by the World’s Most Ambitious Companies Stay ahead of fraud Online Fraud is Expected to Increase 140% in the Next Five Years To protect your business, you need a scalable solution that can stay ahead of modern fraud attacks – without adding friction to your customers’ experience. Speak with an expert Solving Complex Problems Protect Your Customers From Fraud & Stop Money Laundering Secure Your Onboarding From the initial click to sign-up, use real-time digital footprint and device intelligence signals to immediately block fraudulent traffic and accounts. Explore registration & onboarding solutions Monitor User Activities in Real Time Analyze millions of transaction patterns in real time using AI so you can spot – and deter – risk and fraud earlier. Explore transaction monitoring solutions Analyze AI-Driven Insights Deploy machine learning-suggested rules or formulate your own with our codeless rule builder to enhance fraud detection, reduce manual reviews and refine risk decision-making. Explore AI & machine learning Unite Your Fraud, Risk and Compliance Teams in a Single Platform Streamline collaboration and enhance efficiency across your operations by integrating fraud detection, risk management and compliance monitoring in one comprehensive platform. Explore AML screening & monitoring Previous Next “We were looking at another provider, but they came back to us with a 4-6 months integration window. With SEON, it was literally a phone call, sandbox tests on Monday and by the end of the week, it was done.” Coert Snyman, Senior Analyst, NOTYD 5 days to integrate and onboard 87% drop  in fraudulent transactions Read case study “SEON improves our accuracy by an extra 200 basis points. That doesn’t sound like a lot, but we are talking about 200 bpis of fraud cases we would be losing otherwise. And it’s often the last few points that are so hard to win as we fine-tune our models.” Dmitri Lihhatsov, Fincrime Product Owner, Revolut 200 basis points increase 8x ROI cost-effective pay-per-API call Read case study “With SEON, you can reduce bonus abuse, making marketing spend more efficient and giving teams better visibility into campaign success. Working in real time is a key difference, and to top it off, the customer support is excellent.” Joeran Kiencke, Manager Risk Operations, Lottoland 32x ROI by safeguarding marketing campaigns from bonus abuse 190% increase in multi-accounting detection at registration Read case study The #1 Fraud Detection & Prevention Solution Loved by Fraud & Risk Teams With more than 300+ reviews, SEON is the market leader and G2’s best Fraud Detection Solution. Solutions Comprehensive Fraud Prevention Tailored for Every Industry Financial Services Protect customers from fraud at every stage. Learn more iGaming Eliminate threats without sacrificing player experience. Learn more Fintech Don’t let fraud hold your business back. Learn more Retail Reduce chargebacks & stop e-commerce fraud. Learn more Payments Block fraudulent transactions in real time. Learn more Take the First Step Toward Transformative Fraud Prevention “SEON significantly enhanced our fraud prevention efficiency, freeing up time and resources for better policies, procedures and rules.” Vladislav Notevskyi, Head of KYC, Soft2Bet Automate 95% of fraud checks Reduce fraudulent registrations by 90% Accelerate manual reviews by 90% Trusted by 5,000+ Global Organizations: Book Time With Our Experts Google Client ID First Name * Last Name * Business email * Company name * Country * Country Afghanistan Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Asia/Pacific Region Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory British Virgin Islands Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Canary Islands Cape Verde Caribbean Netherlands Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic Republic of the Congo Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic East Timor Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Europe Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern and Antarctic Lands Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kosovo Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau Macedonia (FYROM) Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar (Burma) Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island North Korea Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Islands Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Romania Russia Rwanda Réunion Saint Barthélemy Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands South Korea South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu U.S. Virgin Islands Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vatican City Venezuela Vietnam Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Åland Islands Job Title * Phone Number Please select all that apply * Fraud Prevention AML & Compliance Transaction monitoring White Glove Services How did you hear about us? * Just like you, we hate spam. We won't call you and we will only send you relevant emails, which you can opt-out of at any time. By signing up, you agree to our Terms Of Service and Privacy Policy . 4.7 4.9 Products Digital Footprint Device Intelligence AI & Machine Learning Customer Screening & Monitoring Case Management Shopify AWS Free Trial Use Cases Account Takeover Bonus Abuse Fake & Synthetic IDs Registration & Onboarding Transaction Monitoring Login & Activity Monitoring AI Automation Industries Financial Services iGaming Retail Payment Fraud Fintech Resources Articles Guides Comparisons Case Studies Events Webinars Dictionary Developers API Reference Knowledge Base Github Company About Us Contact Us Partners News Mediaroom Careers LinkedIn X Instagram Facebook Legal & Security FAQ API Status © 2024 Copyright SEON Technologies Ltd. ES EN

---

g2.com

---

Fraud Detection Software for Banks | SQN Banking Systems (609) 261-5500 Home About Services Managed Fraud Services Cyber Threat Intelligence Software as a Service Fraud Process Review Hosting Services Data Conversion Services Solutions Check Fraud Protection Positive Pay Payee Name Extraction Check Image Analysis Signature Verification Transaction Analysis Real-Time Fraud Analysis Alert Review Workflow Safe Deposit Box Management Resources Blog Articles Press & News Events Contact Fraud Detection Software for Banks | SQN Banking Systems Home Fraud Detection Software for Banks Every year bank fraud costs financial institutions a significant amount of their profits. It also harms their customers and their reputations. To minimize losses as much as possible, financial institutions need fraud detection software. This guide explains the basics of bank fraud detection software, and it contains links to resources with more information. What Is Banking Fraud Detection Software? Fraud detection software detects and prevents fraud at your bank. It scans all transactions in real time, and when it spots red flags of fraud, it requests a manual review of the transaction. There are several different types of anti-fraud software, but for the highest level of protection, financial institutions need software that is customized for the unique needs of banks. How Fraud Detection Software for Banks Works Fraud detection software monitors bank transactions to look for signs of fraud. It relies on machine learning and data analysis to learn about the patterns of fraud. Then, when it identifies a potential instance of fraud, it flags the transaction for a manual review by your fraud team, or it requests customer verification of the transaction. Top Features of Bank Fraud Detection Software The fraud detection software you select for your bank needs the right features to be effective. While traditional solutions primarily relied on rule-based fraud detection , contemporary solutions offer features that improve the efficacy of the software. Check out the following features: ● Artificial Intelligence AI drives the success of most fraud software for banks. It allows you to automate processes that are currently handled by humans or labor-intensive machines. ● Machine Learning Machine learning allows the AI in anti-fraud software to improve its detection abilities over time. The software learns the differences between legitimate and fraudulent transactions in general. At the same time, it also learns about the unique behaviors of your customers. To be as effective as possible, fraud detection software for banks should leverage both supervised and unsupervised machine learning. To ensure that you select the most effective anti-fraud software, you should ask the following 9 Questions to Ask About Machine Learning Solutions . You can easily use your software without understanding the intricacies of machine learning, but you may want to read a bit about the types of machine learning used in anti-fraud solutions so that you have a general understanding of how they work. ● Real-Time Analysis Every day, your financial institution processes thousands of transactions, and if you don’t monitor those transactions in real-time, you risk fraud getting through the cracks. Real-time analysis also helps to protect the customer experience because it reduces the risk of fraud on their accounts. ● Support for the Customer Experience Your customers don’t want to deal with legitimate transactions getting declined because your software thinks they’re fraudulent. To prevent this from happening, you need software that protects the customer experience by getting to know the unique patterns of your customers. Effective fraud detection software should be able to understand that what may be a red flag of fraud on one customer’s account, may be another customer’s standard practice. ● False Positive Reduction A false positive is when your software flags a legitimate transaction as fraudulent. False positives disrupt the customer experience, and they compromise your ability to detect fraud. When choosing fraud detection software for your bank, make sure that the software uses machine learning or other strategies to actively reduce false positives. ● Automation When you automate fraud detection with software, you speed up processes internally, but you also enhance the services that you offer your customers. If your team doesn’t need to spend as much of their time monitoring transactions for fraud, they have more time for human interactions with your customers. ● Cyber Threat Analysis Ideally, your fraud solution should be backed by cyber threat intelligence. This is when analysts collect data about emerging threats from the darknet, hacker forums, social media, and other sources. Then, they use this information to improve the detection capabilities of your fraud detection software.  Check out these resources to learn more: FAQs About Cyber Threat Intelligence Cyber Threat Intelligence 101 Your solution also needs to be proactive. Ideally, you want to detect fraud before it occurs rather than after it has started. This reduces the losses directly related to the fraud, but early detection also helps to reduce fraud remediation costs . Benefits of Fraud Detection Software for Banks Fraud detection software is an investment in your financial institution. It helps to protect you from losses, but it also safeguards your reputation and improves the customer experience. Here are the top five benefits of fraud detection software for banks. Reduced Fraud — Fraud detection software helps to reduce fraud at your bank. It reduces losses by spotting fraud in action, and it prevents losses by spotting fraud before it occurs. Improved Fraud Detection Processes — There are numerous steps you can take to improve your fraud detection processes, but investing in software can be the most important decision you make. Saved time for employees — By automating your manual fraud detection processes, you save time for your employees. This can reduce your payroll costs, but it can also free up time for your employees to focus on other core business essentials. Customer Satisfaction — Customers are very aware of the risks of bank fraud, and they expect their financial institutions to protect them. To attract and retain a quality customer base, you need to have 24/7 fraud monitoring and other anti-fraud tools in place. Protected Reputation — Fraud has a direct impact on your bank’s reputation. After fraud occurs, there are many steps you can take to reduce the impact on your reputation, but the best protection for your reputation is to simply avoid fraud in the first place. Again, anti-fraud software is critical for that. How to Choose Bank Fraud Detection Software When choosing fraud detection software for your bank, you want to work with a developer that can help you create a custom solution based on your bank’s practices and risk profiles. You also want software that leverages machine learning to improve detection while safeguarding the customer experience. Look for the following features when choosing fraud detection software for your bank: Comprehensive detection capabilities Self-learning and supervised learning Multiple layers of protection Integration with existing systems. Streamlined deployment Compliance with banking industry security standards Customer support 24/7 technical support While looking at different types of software, you may see a range of price points. Don’t necessarily opt for the cheapest option. Instead, look for value. Ultimately, you want a balance between cost and features. Hosting for Bank Fraud Software When you invest in fraud detection software for your bank, you don’t necessarily have to buy expensive hardware to support the software. Instead, you can have the software provider host the software for you. Sometimes called infrastructure as a service (IaaS) or platform as a service (PaaS), hosting allows you to save money on IT equipment. Rather than buying equipment upfront, paying to maintain it, and eventually needing to replace it, you simply pay a monthly fee to a hosting service. Then, in exchange, you get updated equipment, maintenance, and support. Contact Us About Fraud Detection Software for Banks At SQN Banking Systems, we offer signature verification, check image analysis, transaction analysis, real-time analysis, and alert review workflow as well as other solutions and services. We can also host your anti-fraud software and/or provide software as a service (SaaS). To learn more about fraud detection software for banks, contact us today. Download Our e-Book Your Complete Guide to Check Fraud Download Now East Coast Office SQN Banking Systems 65 Indel Ave PO Box 423, Rancocas, NJ 08073 Toll Free: 888-744-7226 Tech Support sqntech@sqnbankingsystems.com Call Us: 609-261-5500 West Coast Office SQN Banking Systems Tech Support techwest@sqnbankingsystems.com Call Us: 818-715-1160 Home About Contact Privacy Home About Services Managed Fraud Services Cyber Threat Intelligence Software as a Service Fraud Process Review Hosting Services Data Conversion Services Back Solutions Check Fraud Protection Positive Pay Payee Name Extraction Check Image Analysis Signature Verification Transaction Analysis Real-Time Fraud Analysis Alert Review Workflow Safe Deposit Box Management Back Resources Blog Articles Press & News Events Back Contact

---

Best Fraud Detection Software Fraud Detection Software, and Risk Management Software, are systems designed to detect and prevent fraud in real time and secure web, mobile, and phone transactions. These platforms are tailored to the needs of financial institutions and also retail organizations who sell online, and may vary in scope along the needs of their intended users. We've collected videos, features, and capabilities below. Take me there. All Products (1-25 of 249) Has Pricing 1 Riskified 19 reviews Has pricing Riskified, headquartered in Tel Aviv, helps businesses to realize the potential of eCommerce by making it safe, accessible, and frictionless. Their eponymous platform allows online merchants to create trusted relationships with their consumers. Leveraging machine learning that benefits… Contact 2 D&B Finance Analytics 245 reviews Top Rated Free trial D&B Finance Analytics is a global credit-to-cash solution  that provides Dun & Bradstreet  data, analytics, and technology to help improve cash flow, increase operational efficiency, and mitigate risk.  This AI-driven solution comprises two platforms – D&B Credit Intelligence… Learn More 3 F5 Distributed Cloud Bot Defense 19 reviews Top Rated Has pricing Free trial Live demo F5 Distributed Cloud Bot Defense (formerly Shape Defense, acquired January 2020) provides security to protect a website from bots, fake users, and unauthorized transactions, preventing large scale fraud and eroded user experiences. Companies get visibility, detection and mitigation… Learn More Contact 4 Trust Swiftly 6 reviews Has pricing Free trial In
an era where digital transactions and interactions have become the norm,
ensuring the security and trustworthiness of online identities has become a
paramount concern for businesses. Trust Swiftly is an identity
verification service that aims to simplify and enhance the process of user
authentication. By leveraging advanced technologies and robust security
measures, Trust Swiftly helps businesses to est… 5 ClickGUARD 10 reviews Has pricing Free trial ClickGUARD is a fully automated protection tool that enables businesses to run secure pay-per-click campaigns. The software can eliminate unwanted clicks on your PPC ads, help to clean up your traffic, and optimize your budget for your target audience. 6 CrossClassify 0 reviews Has pricing Free trial Live demo CrossClassify offers a fraud detection system designed to protect online customers' accounts. The software attempts to detect and block fraudulent activities using AI, machine learning, and behavioral biometrics. CrossClassify aims to minimize false positives while providing continuous monitoring and real-time alerts. The solution is presented as ideal for SMEs, CrossClassify as it is designed to provide comprehensive protec… 7 Fraudio 0 reviews Has pricing Free trial Live demo Fraudio is a cloud-based, SaaS solution designed to fight complex payment fraud and financial crime by using artificial intelligence, machine learning and multi-dataset network effects. Latest Generation in Fraud Detection & Prevention technology So far there are three generation… 8 Kount, an Equifax company 16 reviews Live demo Kount Fraud Detection Software is an option from the company of the same name in Boise, Idaho. 9 TIS (Treasury Intelligence Solutions) 15 reviews TIS helps CFOs, Treasurers, and Finance teams transform their global cash flow, liquidity, and payment functions. Since 2010, the cloud platform and service model have supported the office of the CFO to collaborate and attain efficiency, automation, and control. By streamlining connectivity between TIS' customers’ b… Visit our website Contact Show Details 10 Enzoic Account Takeover Protection 0 reviews Has pricing Free trial A solution to defend users and business against account takeover (ATO) threats. Enzoic’s REST API integrates i… 11 NoFraud 0 reviews Has pricing Free trial NoFraud is an eCommerce fraud prevention and checkout solution that protects businesses from fraudsters, eliminates chargeback losses, and provides smoother, more frictionless checkout experiences for trusted shoppers. 12 TrafficGuard 0 reviews Has pricing Free trial Live demo TrafficGuard is fraud detection software that provides comprehensive digital advertising fraud protection for brands, agencies and ad networks. TrafficGuard is designed to detect, mitigate and report on ad fraud before it hits the organization's digital advertising budget. Three… 13 ThreatMark 0 reviews Has pricing ThreatMark provides fraud prevention solutions. The vendor states major banks use ThreatMark's AI-powered technology
to build secured banking experiences by validating their legitimate
users across all digital channels, all while keeping the fraudsters
away. ThreatMark aims to make sure that the entire digital journey
(onboarding, authentication, account management, transactions…) is trusted and
safe for both end-users and businesses, boasting ThreatMark validates more than 25 million users and over 1 billion logins and
transaction… 14 PPCSecure 0 reviews Has pricing Free trial PPCSecure is a click fraud solution that automatically monitors the user's ads using a click-fraud prevention algorithm. The solution places offender's IP addresses into an IP Exclusion list automatically, and PPCSecure will track the time each user spends on a site and their conversions.… 15 PPC Protect 0 reviews Has pricing Free trial PPC Protect offers an autonomous, real time click fraud prevention platform for digital media advertisers. Research shows that up to 30% of paid media budgets are lost to fraudulent activity, yet only 12% of marketers are aware of this. PPC Protect's automated platform allows m… 16 TrustedForm 0 reviews Has pricing TrustedForm provides independent lead certification that can be used for legal compliance and campaign optimization. TrustedForm certificates provide documentation of consent and insights about the origin and authenticity of each lead. Whether they are purchasing leads from independent vendors or generating them on their own sites, TrustedForm offers markete… 17 CertifID 0 reviews Has pricing CertifID is a digital identity and device verification solution used by title companies, law firms, lenders, realtors, and home buyers and sellers to prevent wire fraud. In the United States, wire fraud is a significant risk impacting the real estate industry. By validating the… 18 credolab 0 reviews Has pricing Live demo Credolab is a B2B SaaS Fintech that develops bank-grade digital scorecards built on mobile devices and online web behavioural metadata. The company's pay-per-use solutions are available to banks and neobanks, digital lenders and BNPL players, insurance companies, and any industry… 19 ThisData 0 reviews Has pricing Free trial ThisData offers real-time detection of Account Takeover (ATO) attacks for web and mobile applications. ThisData provides users with total visibility with zero configuration required. How ThisData works: • Real-time de… 20 SenseText 0 reviews Has pricing Free trial SenseText is an adaptive machine learning fraud detection platform that helps enterprise employees to detect suspicious messages and emails quickly using a simple fraud risk score. At each workstation, the solution aims to protect customers from cyber fraud, intelligently reducing the risk of fraudulent transactions using machine learning (ML) and natural language processing (NLP). SenseText… 21 FingerprintJS 0 reviews Has pricing Free trial Empowering developers to solve fraud at the source Prevent Account Takeovers and Sharing Protect Cryptocurrency wallets Stop Gaming fraud 22 IPQualityScore (IPQS) 0 reviews Has pricing Free trial IPQualityScore (IPQS) is an enterprise-grade fraud prevention solution provider, catering to companies of all sizes. With globally optimized data, IPQS can provide fraud detection for companies in any region or niche. The solution includes a suite of tools such as bot detection, IP address reputation, device fingerprinting, email validation, and phone validatio… 23 SEON. Fraud Fighters 5 reviews Has pricing Free trial SEON is a fraud and risk prevention platform, catching fraud before it happens at any point across the customer journey. Boasting users among 5,000 global companies, SEON combines a company’s data with proprietary real-time signals to deliver actionable fraud insights tailored to… 24 Empello 0 reviews Live demo Empello is a provider of Anti-Fraud services for Carrier Billing and Value Added Services. The software boasts users among mobile operators and providers across four continents, with the goal of delivering comprehensive protection against fraudulent transactions. 25 NameScan 2 reviews Has pricing NameScan, a member of the Neurocom group, is based in Australia and provides a publicly accessible online service which enables users to check the names of individual persons or companies instantly, against the Dow Jones Watchlists, which the vendor presents as the most detailed… Learn More About Fraud Detection Software What is Fraud Detection Software? Fraud detection software automatically monitors transactions and events in real time to detect and prevent fraudulent activities occurring in-house, online or in-store. It prevents improper access to sensitive company and customer data. The suspect transaction or event is flagged and can be manually reviewed through an investigative dashboard. Fraud detection software prevents illegitimate activities related to payments, purchases, and chargebacks. It is used to secure web, mobile and phone based financial transactions. The software helps prevent digital payment fraud, and account takeover by validating identities sometimes employing two step authentications, and by identifying malicious logins, and bot activity. Click fraud software is used by online advertisers to identify and block malicious and non-converting traffic. Fraud detection software is also used to prevent insurance fraud, and money laundering. The software helps ensure compliance with security and data privacy regulations. The software can monitor internal and external data, employees, customers, transactions, events, and databases. Detection and prevention are based upon rules or predictive models. Fraud detection software increasingly uses AI for Predictive Analytics which identifies fraud patterns Ai is also employed for Customer Analytics which detects deviations from a customer’s usual behavior and Social Media Analytics which gathers information from social media and blogs. These patterns are analyzed to help identify fraudulent behavior. In the future behavioral biometric capabilities will be readily incorporated into fraud detection software. This entails analyzing a user’s mouse gestures, typing speed and pattern to detect deviations from the norm as an indicator of potentially fraudulent activity. Real-time biometric analysis will prevent identity theft and account takeovers. Fraud Detection Software Features ·         Data security and privacy regulations compliance·         Real-time fraud monitoring of internal and external data, employees, customers, transactions, events, and databases.·         Real time transaction screening and review·         Pattern recognition / Anomaly detection·         Custom fraud parameters – establish organization specific parameters and thresholds to trigger fraud prevention actions·         Investigations·         Security management – manage role-based user access to transactional data to prevent tampering or hacking·         Internal fraud monitoring – review of internal actions to determine need for investigation Fraud Detection Software Comparison Consider the following when purchasing fraud detection software. Use Case – What kind of business or organization will be using this software? Banks and financial institutions, eCommerce and online retail, physical and in-person services, will all have different challenges when it comes to fraud prevention. Some fraud tools are specialized to support those needs, other vendor offerings are generalized to support a wide range of industries. For Financial Fraud Protection – It is essential that the product has the capability to perform real-time analysis to flag suspicious activities as they occur and to take the appropriate actions. Dashboards – a robust dashboard provides the capability to review transactions, identify patterns, provide insights, and make informed decisions. Pricing Information Pricing is driven by the number of transactions/queries, validation and grouping rules supported, features provided and level of customer support. Basic plans range from $25 to $1,000 a month. Some enterprise plans begin at $1250 a month. Licenses can cost $49,000 or more. Many vendors require a quote for their product and services. Related Categories Authentication Systems Complex Event Processing Software Financial Risk Management Software IoT Security Software IP Geolocation Software Mobile Device Management (MDM) Solutions Mobile Identity Software Security Analytics Software Session Border Controllers Chargeback Management Software Identity Verification Platforms Certificate Lifecycle Management Software Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Software Click Fraud Software Frequently Asked Questions What does Fraud Detection Software do? What are the benefits of using Fraud Detection Software? What are the best Fraud Detection Software products? How much does Fraud Detection Software cost? What does Fraud Detection Software do? Fraud detection software prevents fraudulent activities related to accounts, payments, and purchases by reviewing transactions, and events in real time to detect fraudulent activities. It helps protect sensitive company and customer data. What are the benefits of using Fraud Detection Software? Financial – It protects against revenue loss by identifying fraudulent transactions and minimizing false declines. Security – It prevents access to sensitive customer and company data and prevents account takeovers. Brand Reputation – When an organization is exposed to fraudulent activities, its reputation can suffer as there can be a loss of trust. Minimizing this exposure protects the brand. Customer Experience – Proper use of automated fraud protection software will seamlessly approve legitimate customer transactions in a timely manner. What are the best Fraud Detection Software products? These are some of the more popular fraud detection products. Kount Signifyd Sift Digital Trust & Safety Suite Riskified Oracle Adaptive Access Manager SEON Fraud Fighters Iovation IBM Trusteer How much does Fraud Detection Software cost? Pricing is driven by the number of transactions, validation rules supported, features provided and level of customer support. Basic plans range from $25 to $1,000 a month. Many vendors require a quote for their product and services. Home Fraud Detection Software

---

Fraud, AML & Security Intelligence Overview Solutions AML/CFT Compliance Fraud & Improper Payments Identity & Digital Fraud Public Security SAS for ... Fraud Executive Fraud Investigator Chief Compliance Officer Resources Request Demo Fraud, Anti-Money Laundering & Security Intelligence Prevent fraud. Achieve compliance. Preserve security. x Why choose SAS ® for fraud, anti-money laundering & security intelligence? Proactive protection through advanced analytics, AI and machine learning. Take a unified approach to fraud, compliance and security. Only security intelligence solutions from SAS deliver an essential layer of protection backed by domain expertise and the world’s best analytics. How SAS Delivers Fraud, Anti-Money Laundering & Security Intelligence Solutions Fraud & Improper Payments Safeguard your organization’s reputation and your bottom line. Stop improper payments associated with fraud, waste and abuse before they occur. Learn about fraud & improper payments Deutsche Kreditbank is known as a bank that makes it difficult for fraudsters. Using SAS Anti-Money Laundering and SAS Detection and Investigation, the bank gets a complete view of fraud and can detect the most complex fraud scenarios and signals. Find out how DKB uses SAS Anti-Money Laundering/CFT Compliance Comply with ever-changing regulations. And take a risk-based approach that increases transparency and reduces your compliance risk. Learn about AML/CFT compliance Banks must balance customer service with an ever-increasing portfolio of risks. Landsbankinn chose SAS Anti-Money Laundering to identify patterns in its data, and SAS Visual Analytics to provide data visualization capabilities for analysts across the organization. Find out how Landsbankinn uses SAS Identity & Digital Fraud Evaluate interactions across the entire customer life cycle to reduce the risk of identity and digital fraud. Learn about identity & digital fraud CNG Holdings uses SAS to verify a customer's identity in real time and stop fraud in its tracks, resulting in a 30% reduction in fraud-fighting costs with a near-zero false positive rate. Learn how CNG Holdings uses SAS Public Security Respond faster and more effectively to crime, terrorism and other security threats with a cohesive, analytics-based approach to risk and threat assessment. Learn about public security The Malta Tax & Customs Administration uses SAS Viya to detect compliance discrepancies and filing errors automatically. Learn how Malta Tax & Customs Administration uses SAS The Analytics Life Cycle DataOps • Artificial Intelligence • ModelOps Select a tab below to learn more DataOps Artificial Intelligence ModelOps x Borrowing from agile software development practices, the DataOps phase provides an agile approach to data access, quality, preparation and governance. It enables greater reliability, adaptability, speed and collaboration, using SAS capabilities such as entity resolution, an open data model, data importing and the ability to orchestrate all analytic activities so you can: Gain a holistic view of risk. Authenticate a customer’s identity. Automatically tune models through an adaptive learning feedback loop. Learn about SAS Viya Understanding data and building predictive models requires a combination of techniques – statistics, machine learning, deep learning, natural language processing, computer vision, forecasting, optimization and others. SAS provides rapid AI-powered analytics and automated learning, white box technology, continuous monitoring and surveillance loops, and automated modeling so you can: Accurately detect rare events and reduce false positives. Rapidly detect emerging threats. Reduce time to intelligence. Learn about SAS Viya The ModelOps phase focuses on getting AI models through validation, testing and deployment as quickly as possible, while ensuring quality results. It also focuses on ongoing model monitoring, retraining and governance to ensure peak performance and transparent decisions in day-to-day processes through case management and workflows, a user-friendly interface and intuitive dashboard, a real-time decision engine, and customer-specific rules that: Enhance productivity. Improve the customer experience. Protect your organization’s reputation. Learn about SAS Viya Why I Fight Fraud Who benefits from using SAS ® for fraud, anti-money laundering and security intelligence? Explore how advanced analytics solutions from SAS with predictive analytics and embedded AI capabilities are helping meet a range of strategic business needs. SAS for ... Fraud Executives Investigators Chief Compliance Officers Get a Free Trial Experience SAS Viya firsthand in our private trial environment. Try SAS Viya for free Request Pricing Embark on your path to the future in a single, expandable environment. Request Pricing Request a Demo See SAS in action with a demo customized for your industry and business needs. Add Text Get Free Training Get the training you need to make the most of your SAS investment. Add Text

---

Four essential SaaS features you need in fraud detection software Our current digital world brings benefits and ease to daily life. Yet, with quick access to email, cloud backup and barrier-free work communication comes the dangers of online fraud. For any business that conducts work online, fraud detection software is necessary. Identity fraud prevention is crucial in the digital age to protect personal and financial information, mitigate financial losses, preserve reputation and trust, comply with data protection regulations, reduce operational costs, facilitate economic growth and minimize emotional distress. Prioritizing identity fraud prevention allows individuals and businesses to navigate the digital landscape confidently and securely. The SaaS features in your fraud software safeguard your business by providing enhanced identity verification, real-time fraud detection, account takeover prevention, compliance adherence and incident response capabilities. As a business, you are responsible for building customer trust and protecting sensitive information. Fraud prevention software with powerful SaaS features ensures a secure digital environment for individuals. This blog will explore the four essential SaaS features you want in your anti-fraud software: Real-Time Identity Verification, Device and IP Intelligence, Fraud Case Management and Reporting and Behavior Analysis and Machine Learning. Real-time identity verification Instantaneous fraud detection analyzes user data and behavior as they interact with online businesses. By comparing the information customers provide instantaneously against a comprehensive database, the detection system red flags fraud indicators such as suspicious patterns and inconsistencies in the identity. These indicators enable businesses to act immediately and prevent fraudulent transactions or account creation. A critical aspect of real-time identity verification within a SaaS tool is enhanced accuracy and reliability. This verification leverages machine learning algorithms and artificial intelligence to assess user information’s validity. Automating the verification process and eliminating manual errors improves the accuracy and reliability of identity verification. Such automation reduces the chances of false positives or false negatives and ensures genuine users are not inconvenienced while effectively identifying potential fraudsters. Real-time verification solutions are meant to reduce friction, enhance user experience and provide seamless interaction. Businesses can reduce the time and effort required from users during the onboarding or transaction process by using efficient and quick verification processes. The quick verification process improves user satisfaction and reduces the likelihood of user abandonment or frustration due to lengthy verification procedures. Flexibility and adaptability are other critical factors in real-time verification systems that can adapt to evolving fraud tactics and regulatory requirements. Businesses can integrate new data sources, update fraud algorithms and adjust risk assessment models. This flexibility allows companies to avoid emerging fraud trends and comply with industry standards. Automating the identity verification process in real-time saves businesses significant costs and time associated with manual verification procedures. In eliminating the manual review, the resources required for that review are no longer needed. In regards to regulatory standards, these standards are regularly changing. Real-time verification systems assist businesses in complying with Know Your Customer (KYC) requirements and anti-money laundering (AML) requirements. Fraudulent activity monitoring

---

The best fraud detection software and companies in 2024 Fraud Knowledge & Training Insights The best fraud detection software and companies in 2024 Table of Contents: The best fraud detection software and companies in 2024 Fraud detection software: 4 features to look for Top fraud detection software companies 1. ComplyAdvantage 2. Featurespace 3. Feedzai 4. Sardine 5. Hawk:AI 6. Onfido 7. Abrigo 8. SymphonyAI How to measure success Next steps: Explore fraud detection from ComplyAdvantage Share: If you’ve found this article, the chances are you’re looking for: A fraud detection tool that’s powerful, efficient, and scalable. A way to quickly tell what differentiates leading solutions. How respected third parties assess top fraud and AML vendors’ capabilities. Fraud detection software: 4 features to look for When evaluating fraud detection vendors , there are several features fraud and compliance teams should look for: Artificial intelligence capabilities: As important as AI is, simply adding an ‘AI sticker’ to a solution doesn’t tell you much about its capabilities. Specific areas firms should explore include: The use of advanced behavioral analytics via unsupervised machine learning and tailored rules to detect anomalies from an individual or peer group. The use of identity clustering to detect fraud patterns across multiple accounts. The use of alert prioritization to make remediation more efficient. Fraud scenario coverage: Coverage of fraud scenarios across key touchpoints in the lifecycle of a transaction and all payment types is also critical — specifically, firms should consider: Payment-agnostic fraud scenarios including account takeover, synthetic identity, and relationship fraud. In total, ComplyAdvantage has logged more than 50 of these. Data types – emerging payment types with rich, structured data like ISO20022 offer huge potential to improve fraud detection. Non-transaction events such as fraud detection for real-time payment methods, including FedNow and the Faster Payments network. Detecting fraud here requires pre-transaction screening via events like log-ins and profile changes. Establishment payment rails like ACH, SWIFT MT, SEPA, and Faster Payments should be included. Sector knowledge: The firm providing your solution should have relevant experience with similar customers. This will enable them to offer better recommendations on achieving your fraud detection requirements while minimizing the impact on the customer experience. Integration of fraud and AML capabilities: There are many benefits to working with vendors that offer fraud and AML products. This can help to overcome internal siloes but also improve efficiency and save money. Top fraud detection software companies 1. ComplyAdvantage The G2 GridⓇ for Anti-Money Laundering is a helpful way of measuring financial crime risk management vendors based on customer reviews. The G2 GridⓇ lists ComplyAdvantage as a leader in anti-money laundering. G2 Grid® for Anti Money Laundering Software Fraud Detection from ComplyAdvantage is an AI-based solution that enables firms to detect and prevent payment fraud efficiently. Our machine learning models have won hackathons organized by ACAMS and PwC and, in relation to fraud detection, have four key capabilities: Explainability: An “ensemble model” considers various fraud scenarios, explaining why each alert was created. Dynamic Thresholds: Calibrated to maximize precision and minimize false positives. Identity Clustering: Uses behavioral and personal characteristics to link accounts that a single individual or organization behind key fraud scenarios, such as synthetic identity fraud or money muling fraud, may control. Graph Network Detection: Uses graph network analyses to track fraudulent money within your system after the fraud has been committed. Top ComplyAdvantage features Fraud Detection by ComplyAdvantage is well suited to digital and regional/mid-market banks, international money transfer and foreign exchange firms, PropTech, and many payment companies. To help these firms detect fraud effectively, our solution includes the following capabilities: Advanced machine learning (ML) detections – Capture unknown fraud risks rules alone can’t see, using ML models, identity clustering, and graph analytics. Anomaly detection – See the unseen with peer group and individual anomaly detection using unsupervised machine learning algorithms. Dynamic tuning – Fraud detection models continuously learn from analyst feedback. Fine-tuned, real-time risk approach – Apply different rules and thresholds for different customer tiers. Smart Alerts – Identify and prioritize alert risk factors, increasing team efficiency. Flexible rules engine – Leverage fraud and industry-specific rules and scenarios, or work with industry experts to set your own. 50+ fraud scenarios – Leverage our wide array of payment-agnostic fraud scenarios, including Account Take Over (ATO) Fraud, Synthetic Identity Fraud, Relationship Fraud, Email Compromise Fraud, Authorized Push Payment (APP) Fraud, and many more. Coverage for all payment rails – Rest easy with comprehensive payment coverage, including ACH, Swift MT, SEPA, Direct Debit, FedNow, Faster Payments, and SEPA ICT. Coverage for non-transaction events – Take advantage of holistic insights on customer behavior events like logins and profile changes. Integrated case management – Open an investigative case directly from an alert, automate repetitive tasks, and reduce human error. Custom workflows – Move transactions through the various states for reporting and escalation. Flexible data format – Use as much of the data you have as possible in your format and build your compliance program around it. Ongoing configuration – Independently perform ongoing rule and scenario configuration. Behavioral analytics – Take advantage of identity clustering fuelled by customer behavior and identity data to link accounts controlled by a single hidden entity. Neural network models – The wider ComplyAdvantage platform uses neural network models and algorithms to identify factors such as anomalies in transaction behavior. This includes, for example, discrepancies between reference text and transaction values to help identify fraud where the reference text may be used to mask the source or purpose of transferring funds. Improve Your Operational Efficiency with ComplyAdvantage Book a meeting with our team to find out more about how our fraud detection solution can help your business make smarter decisions about its financial crime risks - fast. Request demo 2. Featurespace According to Crunchbase , Featurespace “provides an adaptive behavioral analytics technology and automated deep behavioral networks for risk management.” The company was founded in 2008, and its investors include Merian Chrysalis. 3. Feedzai Crunchbase describes Feedzai as a developer of “risk management tools to prevent fraud and money laundering in transactions.” The company was founded in 2011 and currently has more than 600 employees. Its investors include KKR, Sapphire Ventures, and Citi Ventures. 4. Sardine Crunchbase describes Sardine as a “fraud prevention and compliance software company for the digital economy.” The firm was founded in 2020, and its investors include Andreessen Horowitz, XYZ, Nyca Partners, Sound Ventures, and Eric Schmidt. 5. Hawk:AI Crunchbase states Hawk AI is a “money-laundering detection & investigation platform.” Investors, including Sands Capital, DN Capital, and BlackFin Capital Partners, fund Hawk AI. It was founded in 2018 and has its headquarters in Germany. 6. Onfido London-based Onfido was founded in 2012 and is described by Crunchbase as “a provider of automated digital identity verification.” The firm has several investors, including TPG Growth, SBI, and Salesforce. 7. Abrigo Abrigo is described by Crunchbase as a provider of “market-leading compliance, credit risk, and lending solutions to enable its customers to think bigger.” The Texas-based firm has investors, including Carlyle and Accel-KKR. 8. SymphonyAI SymphonyAI acquired financial crime detection firm NetReveal in October 2022. Crunchbase calls the firm “an enterprise AI company focused on delivering AI solutions for vertical sectors.” The firm was started with an injection of capital from its founder in 2017. How to measure success While every firm will have different objectives and challenges with their fraud detection software, our experts recommend three core objectives: Protect the firm and its customers’ reputation. Detecting fraud before it hits the headlines is key to operating a sustainable, profitable business. It’s also important to keep customers informed if a transaction is stopped. Minimize fraud losses. Fraudsters are creative and will keep evolving tactics until they breach security and steal customers’ money. Avoid heavy regulatory penalties by deploying insights-driven machine learning solutions that adapt quickly. Improve analyst efficiency. Trying to grow the compliance team to manage a scaling organization isn’t realistic or cost-effective. Automation has to play a role, which means finding ways to help fraud analysts prioritize their workloads and focus on the greatest risks. Next steps: Explore Fraud Detection from ComplyAdvantage Discover why leading firms choose ComplyAdvantage for Fraud Detection , and book a demo to see the solution for yourself. All information is sourced from publicly available websites and is correct as of March 2024. If you’d like to request a correction, please e-mail content@complyadvantage.com and we’d be happy to review this with you. Originally published 14 June 2023, updated  20 March 2024 Related Content Featured KYB is broken: We’re partnering with Detected to fix it Recent Fraud                 Articles Four ways for businesses to drive innovation while mitigating risk in the age of instant payments What is online gambling fraud, and how can it be prevented? 12 types of financial fraud Top 5 fraud trends in 2024 and how to mitigate them View Knowledge & Training KYB is broken: We’re partnering with Detected to fix it Enhancing AML efforts with explainable AI 7 best practices for an effective payment screening process Quality in, quality out: The role of high-quality data for effective AML compliance Disclaimer: This is for general information only. The information presented does not constitute legal advice. ComplyAdvantage accepts no responsibility for any information contained herein and disclaims and excludes any liability in respect of the contents or for action taken based on this information. Copyright © 2024 IVXS UK Limited (trading as ComplyAdvantage).

---

Fraud Detection in Banking: 2024 Guide Products  CloudMISP Managed MISP instance MalwareZoo Private malware repository Antifraud Financial fraud prevention Capabilities  Security engineering & integration Security assurance Threat intelligence Security operations Fraud detection Cybersecurity training Tabletop exercises Resources  Presentations Upcoming events Podcast Newsroom MISP guide Fraud detection Malware analysis Support Blog About Contact Fraud Detection in Banking: Q2 2024 Guide Learn about the most common types of digital banking fraud in the current threat landscape, effective banking fraud detection techniques, tools, and technologies, best practices and future trends, including AI for fraud detection. As high-profile guardians of wealth, banks are among the most obvious targets for fraudsters seeking financial gain. That's why the banking industry faces the toughest fraud detection and prevention challenges imaginable. How many fraud attacks does a typical bank face each month? The banking sector is charged with fighting fraud at enormous scale. According to a recent study¹, banks earning at least $10 million in annual revenue face an average of 2,000 attempted fraud attacks per month. Larger, high-profile banks can face tens of thousands of fraud attacks per month. At this scale, a 100% manual (e.g. carried out by human analysts) fraud detection and prevention strategy isn't sustainable. Banks have no choice but to adopt automated solutions for fraud detection and prevention. What are the negative impacts of fraud in the banking sector? Financial losses for the bank and its customers. The most direct consequence of successful fraud is financial loss (up to 5% of revenue, according to a 2022 study²). While undetected fraud can result in financial losses for customers, fraud that is detected is typically compensated by the bank in order to maintain trust, leading to direct financial losses. Damage to customer trust and the bank's reputation. Banks that fail to develop an effective fraud detection and prevention strategy can suffer damage to their public reputation and customer trust, negatively impacting the business's overall standing in the market. Concern over regulatory compliance. Banks are legally obligated to implement robust fraud detection measures to comply with financial regulations and data protection laws. Photo by Ales Nesetril on Unsplash. ‍ What are the latest fraud trends in banking in 2023? While the volume of fraud attacks is a serious problem for banks, another challenge is the variable nature of attacks. Here are the fastest growing types of fraud affecting banks this year: Fraud/Crime as a Service (FaaS/CaaS). Cybercrime is becoming more commercialised every year, with fraud automation and phishing kits available for purchase for a monthly fee³. These kits are designed to be easy to use even when the fraudster has limited technical skills. The result is that it's easier than ever before for unsophisticated actors to commit fraud at scale. ‍ Credential Stuffing. In line with the rise in automated fraud tools, fraudsters are increasingly leveraging software or bots to test stolen or leaked credentials at scale. ‍ SMS phishing/smishing/robotexts. The frequency of SMS phishing attacks targeting bank customers is exploding⁴. As email clients become more sophisticated at detecting and stopping phishing attacks, fraudsters are turning to a channel with far fewer spam controls: SMS. SMS messages are also many times more likely to be opened than email⁵, making SMS an increasingly attractive channel for scammers. How does fraud detection in banking typically work? Despite the ever-evolving tools, tactics and techniques of fraudsters, almost all digital banking fraud (including mobile banking fraud) has something in common: it involves payments or withdrawals from the victim's account that differ from the victim's typical pattern of behaviour. Some of these differences are so subtle that they can be difficult for a human analyst to detect. This is why automated real-time fraud detection tools, such as Antifraud , are essential for fraud detection in banking. Automated banking fraud analytics tools monitor dozens of behaviour (behavioural biometrics) and device (device fingerprinting) signals in real-time, then ship them to connected tools, such as Splunk, for analysis. The predictable nature of fraud is the foundation of the fraud detection field. ‍ It means that regardless of the evolving tactics of fraudsters, fraud detection techniques that detect anomalies in the typical behaviour or device signals associated with an account will continue to remain effective. An automated fraud detection in banking example: Here's an example of how automated fraud detection often works in the banking setting: 1. A fraudster sends a phishing email to a banking customer. ‍ 2. The phishing email is used to install malware in the victim's internet browser, which is then used to steal the victim's online banking credentials the next time they log in to online banking. ‍ 3. Next, the fraudster launches an account takeover attack (ATO) using the stolen credentials and attempts to transfer a large sum of money out of the account. ‍ 4. In the background, a fraud detection tool like Antifraud is collecting behavioural analytics and device fingerprint data and sending this data to an enterprise log management and fraud analytics tool like Splunk. ‍ 5. Using the Antifraud data, Splunk detects an anomaly and alerts an analyst. ‍ 6. The analyst freezes the suspicious transaction before it is completed. Why is geolocation no longer the primary way to detect fraud? In the early days of fraud detection, unexpected changes in geolocation were often the primary means to detect fraud. Since fraudsters are often not in the same country (or even continent) as their victims, checking geolocation against typical patterns seems like a logical approach. Over time, it has become increasingly common for both fraudsters and F/CaaS software to use a configurable VPN or proxy to disguise connections as originating from an expected geolocation (such as appearing to originate from Australia when attempting fraud against an Australian bank.) For this reason, checking geolocation alone is no longer an adequate fraud detection strategy. While geolocation data remains a powerful signal, it must also be combined with device and behavioural data to build a unique "fingerprint" for the bank's authorised users. ‍ What are the bank fraud detection techniques you should be using in 2023? A robust fraud detection strategy will require the adoption of several varied fraud detection tools and techniques. Behavioural Analytics / Biometrics. The field of behavioural analytics (also known as behavioural biometrics) is founded on the well-supported idea that people exhibit consistent patterns of behaviour over time. Deviations from these established patterns could indicate fraudulent or malicious activity. Commonly tracked metrics include things like time of day, geographic location, transaction frequency, and spending habits. More sophisticated behavioural biometrics solutions track dozens of behavioural biometrics to build a full picture of the user. Device Fingerprinting. While behavioural analytics tracks user behaviour, device fingerprinting solutions track the devices and applications authorised users typically use to carry out this behaviour. For example, when it comes to online banking, most people will typically access these services using their mobile phone or tablet, and possibly a work and/or personal computer. They may also tend to use certain browsers or applications on these devices. Device fingerprinting techniques can identify deviations in typical device access patterns and trigger alerts or 2FA challenges in response. The best fraud detection software combines both behavioural analytics and device fingerprinting capability. Transaction Fraud Monitoring. Transaction fraud monitoring applies the principles of behavioural fraud analytics to payment fraud detection and prevention. Just as user behaviour is understood to follow a pattern, transactions and payments also tend to follow typical patterns. Transaction fraud monitoring tools flag and potentially block transactions that fall outside these typical patterns, whether in amount, frequency, location, or identity of the receiver. Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence (ML/AI). Rather than a technique in its own right, ML/AI is typically used to enhance the effectiveness of the aforementioned fraud detection techniques. ML can be used to enhance fraud detection algorithms with aggregated training data from millions of legitimate and fraudulent transactions. Meanwhile, AI can be used to improve the accuracy of automated fraud response workflows, such as automatically determining whether to challenge, notify, alert, or block a transaction or log-in attempt based on the available data. What is a typical fraud management system in banking? Robust real-time fraud detection in banking relies on synergy between automated fraud detection tools and human fraud analysts . Typically, automated tools will handle fraud detection responsibilities by leveraging behavioural biometrics, device fingerprinting, and transaction monitoring techniques. Fraud detection data will then be passed to a fraud analysis or log management tool for anomaly detection. When anomalies are detected these will be run through an automated rule-set, triggering different responses depending on the amount of fraud risk present. In a highly effective fraud management system in banking, analysts typically initiate a response and make decisions based on comprehensive groundwork laid by automated real-time fraud detection tools. Let’s dive into the step-by-step details of a typical fraud management system in the banking industry: Data collection and ingestion. Digital banking fraud detection begins with the collection and ingestion of a stream of behaviour and device data. Data preprocessing. Collected data is automatically cleaned and formatted to ensure consistency and accuracy. Automated behavioural analysis. The collected data is compared against typical patterns in real-time to identify anomalies. Rule-based monitoring. Predefined rules and thresholds are applied to this real-time fraud detection data to flag user sessions or transactions which meet the criteria for fraud risk. Automated fraud response. In some cases, data may reach the threshold for an automated fraud response, such as immediately blocking a transaction or challenging the user to use an additional authentication factor, such as SMS. Alerting analysts. In other cases, transactions or user sessions may be flagged for manual analyst review. This typically occurs in situations where automated systems cannot make a clear determination on whether a transaction is legitimate or fraudulent. Alerts are typically prioritised based on potential severity. Customer communication. In some cases, analysts may contact customers to gather more information and check whether a given transaction was authorised. Decision-making. Analysts combine data from real-time fraud detection tools with their own research to make a determination on the legitimacy of a transaction. They may decide to approve, decline, or withhold a transaction or account for review. Blocking and freezing accounts and payments where necessary. Where fraud is confirmed, analysts may decide to block or freeze certain accounts or payments. Documentation and case management. Detailed records of the investigation, actions taken, and must be documented in a case management system. This documentation is essential for compliance and reporting. Reporting. Individual fraud cases are tracked as part of reporting by fraud managers. These reports summarise fraud trends, the effectiveness of fraud prevention at the bank, and the impact of fraud on the bank. Feedback loop. Analysts provide feedback to improve fraud detection rules and algorithms, helping to reduce false positives and enhance fraud detection accuracy. Where to next? If you'd like to improve your behavioural analytics or device fingerprinting capabilities, we suggest using Antifraud to gather dozens of fraud telemetry signals and ship them to your chosen analysis platform. We can also help you to establish or uplift your fraud analysis workflows based on the experience we've gained optimising workflows at many major banks. Feel free to reach out to us a for a brief chat about your use case and to understand how we may be able to help. Whether you're establishing fraud detection workflows at a new bank or FinTech, or improving your existing workflows, we hope this article has helped you gain a better understanding of fraud detection best practices in the banking sector in 2023. References ¹ https://bankingjournal.aba.com/2022/01/study-banks-see-rise-in-fraud-attempts-associated-costs-in-2021/ ² https://acfepublic.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/2022+Report+to+the+Nations.pdf ³ https://www.computerweekly.com/news/252509367/Scale-of-crime-as-a-service-economy-a-growing-concern-say-researchers ⁴ https://www.theguardian.com/money/2023/apr/22/robo-texts-scams-bank-accounts ⁵ https://www.forbes.com/sites/johnkoetsier/2019/11/14/consumers-35x-more-likely-to-see-brands-texts-vs-emails/?sh=285b8c40445a Globally recognised leaders in Cyber Threat Intelligence & SecOps. Navigation Home About Capabilities Support Blog Contact Careers Privacy Policy Connect LinkedIn Twitter YouTube Subscribe to our newsletter Receive occasional news and articles from Cosive. Thanks for subscribing to our newsletter Oops! Something went wrong. Copyright © Cosive Pty Ltd.   

---

All Categories / Online Fraud Detection Online Fraud Detection Reviews and Ratings Download PDF What is Online Fraud Detection ? Gartner defines the OFD market as the market for solutions that detect and prevent fraudulent actions within digital channels (browsers and mobile apps). OFD solutions provide a spectrum of capabilities within digital channels to prevent direct and indirect financial losses and to mitigate risks. Their core capabilities:
Mitigate the activity of... Show More How Categories and Markets Are Defined Product Listings Filters Filter by Reviewed in Last 12 Months Reviewer's Company Size Revenue <50M USD 50M-1B USD 1B-10B USD 10B+ USD Gov't/PS/Ed Reviewer's Industry Banking Retail IT Services Finance (non-banking) Miscellaneous Show More Reviewer's Region North America Europe, Middle East and Africa Asia/Pacific Latin America Vendors Akamai F5 Imperva BioCatch Radware Show More Products 1 - 20 of 128 Sort by Number of Ratings, High to Low Alphabetically (A-Z) Alphabetically (Z-A) Average Rating, Low to High Average Rating, High to Low Number of Ratings, Low to High Number of Ratings, High to Low Bot Manager By Akamai 4.8 ( 72 Ratings ) OVERVIEW ALTERNATIVES Akamai powers and protects life online. Leading companies worldwide choose Akamai to build, deliver, and secure their digital experiences – helping billions of people live, work, and play every day. Akamai Connected Cloud, a massively... Show More Show More Details Imperva Advanced Bot Protection By Imperva 4.7 ( 54 Ratings ) OVERVIEW ALTERNATIVES Imperva is a cybersecurity firm that assists organizations in safeguarding critical applications, APIs, and data across various scales and locations. It adopts a comprehensive approach that amalgamates edge, application security, and data security to offer... Show More Show More Details F5 Distributed Cloud Bot Defense By F5 4.7 ( 44 Ratings ) OVERVIEW ALTERNATIVES Show More Details BioCatch By BioCatch 4.9 ( 40 Ratings ) OVERVIEW ALTERNATIVES BioCatch specializes in Behavioral Biometrics, focusing on the analysis of online user's cognitive and physical digital behavior as a means to enhance individual and asset protection. The main goal is to employ behavior to generate... Show More Show More Details Radware Bot Manager By Radware 4.9 ( 34 Ratings ) OVERVIEW ALTERNATIVES Radware is a global company focusing on delivering application and cyber security solutions for a variety of data centres, from virtual to cloud and software defined. They offer a solutions portfolio designed for assuring service... Show More Show More Details Fraud Prevention By Forter 4.7 ( 25 Ratings ) OVERVIEW ALTERNATIVES Forter operates as a Digital Trust Platform focused on enhancing revenue generation and curtailing losses to fraud and abuse. Grounded on the principle of scrutinizing who is behind an interaction rather than what is bought... Show More Show More Details Guaranteed Fraud Protection By Signifyd 4.4 ( 25 Ratings ) OVERVIEW ALTERNATIVES Signifyd operates as a Commerce Protection Platform that harnesses its Commerce Network to enhance conversion, streamline customer experience, and prevent fraud and consumer abuse for retail businesses. The company aims primarily to alleviate retail payment... Show More Show More Details F5 Distributed Cloud Account Protection By F5 5 ( 22 Ratings ) OVERVIEW ALTERNATIVES Show More Details ThreatMetrix By LexisNexis Risk Solutions 4.3 ( 20 Ratings ) OVERVIEW ALTERNATIVES LexisNexis Risk Solutions is a multi-industry company comprising seven brands. It utilizes innovative technologies, information-based analytics, decision tools, and data management services to aid its customers in problem-solving, informed decision making, compliance, risk reduction, and... Show More Show More Details TruValidate By TransUnion 4.8 ( 20 Ratings ) OVERVIEW ALTERNATIVES iovation, a subsidiary of TransUnion, dedicates its work to the identification and prevention of online fraud. Their Software as a Service (SaaS) solution monitors the reputation of devices such as computers, tablets, and mobile phones... Show More Show More Details Sumsub By Sumsub 4.4 ( 15 Ratings ) OVERVIEW ALTERNATIVES Sumsub is a one verification platform that aims to secure entire user journeys. Its primary focus is to provide customizable Know Your Customer (KYC), Know Your Business (KYB), transaction monitoring, and fraud prevention solutions. The... Show More Show More Details MediaGuard By HUMAN Security 4.7 ( 13 Ratings ) OVERVIEW ALTERNATIVES HUMAN is a cybersecurity company that protects organizations by disrupting digital fraud and abuse. HUMAN solutions leverage modern defense to disrupt the economics of cybercrime by increasing the cost to cybercriminals while simultaneously reducing the... Show More Show More Details Mangopay By Mangopay 4.4 ( 11 Ratings ) OVERVIEW ALTERNATIVES Mangopay is a modular end-to-end payment infrastructure provider offering platform payment solutions - we allow platforms to accept payments, hold funds, split payments, and manage payouts. 
By offering a module-based system, we enable platforms to... Show More Show More Details Monitor Plus By Plus Technologies & Innovations 4.6 ( 9 Ratings ) OVERVIEW ALTERNATIVES Plus TI is a premier software vendor specializing in advanced fraud prevention solutions tailored for the banking sector. Recognizing the evolving landscape of online threats, the company has invested heavily in combating online fraud which... Show More Show More Details XTN Cognitive Security Platform By XTN Cognitive Security 4.8 ( 9 Ratings ) OVERVIEW ALTERNATIVES XTN Cognitive Security focuses on ensuring online security for digital businesses, with an emphasis on validating user authenticity to counter potential threats and fraudulent activities. Their primary tool, the XTN Cognitive Security Platform, uses advanced... Show More Show More Details Kount By Kount 4.7 ( 8 Ratings ) OVERVIEW ALTERNATIVES Equifax is a global company engaged in data, analytics, and technology. Its central role across various sectors of the global economy, such as financial institutions, businesses, and government agencies, involves facilitating their crucial decision-making processes... Show More Show More Details LexisNexis Emailage By LexisNexis Risk Solutions 4.9 ( 8 Ratings ) OVERVIEW ALTERNATIVES LexisNexis Risk Solutions is a multi-industry company comprising seven brands. It utilizes innovative technologies, information-based analytics, decision tools, and data management services to aid its customers in problem-solving, informed decision making, compliance, risk reduction, and... Show More Show More Details Account Protector By Akamai 4.8 ( 7 Ratings ) OVERVIEW ALTERNATIVES Akamai powers and protects life online. Leading companies worldwide choose Akamai to build, deliver, and secure their digital experiences – helping billions of people live, work, and play every day. Akamai Connected Cloud, a massively... Show More Show More Details Pindrop Protect By Pindrop 4.4 ( 7 Ratings ) OVERVIEW ALTERNATIVES Pindrop is a company that is strongly focused on developing future voice technology. It uses its patent technology to extract significant intelligence from every interaction it encounters. The main problem Pindrop solves is providing security,... Show More Show More Details Cleafy By Cleafy 4.2 ( 5 Ratings ) OVERVIEW ALTERNATIVES Since 2014, a group of cybersecurity experts, data scientists, and software engineers have been devoted to the mission of making technology safer. Their primary focus lies within aiding firms to effectively utilize digital opportunities in... Show More Show More Details View More Products ( 108 ) Gartner Research Market Guide for Online Fraud Detection Top Trending Products F5 Distributed Cloud Account Protection BioCatch Radware Bot Manager F5 Distributed Cloud Bot Defense Bot Manager Verosint Popular Product Comparisons Fraud Management vs Fraud Prevention Fraud Prevention vs Guaranteed Fraud Protection BioCatch vs ThreatMetrix Feedzai vs Fraud Management Bot Manager vs Radware Bot Manager Bot Manager vs Imperva Advanced Bot Protection Fraud Prevention vs Kount Back to Top

---

Fraud Detection: Here's How Merchants Can Stop Fraud in 2024 Solutions Resources Access the full report Learn Articles Tips & Insight You Need Guides & Whitepapers Download Expert Info Webinars Listen and Learn—Live Podcast Episodes Watch or Listen on the Go Studies The latest Industry Research Tools Chargeback Reason Codes The Ultimate Guide BIN Lookup Find a Card's Issuing Bank ROI Tool The Cost of Chargebacks MCC Lookup Merchant Category Codes Glossary Chargebacks Terms Explained Resource Hubs Chargebacks Explained Chargeback Representment Chargeback Management Chargeback Prevention Chargeback Rules Fraud Prevention eCommerce Fraud Friendly Fraud Payment Disputes Mastercard Chargebacks Visa Chargebacks PayPal Chargebacks Recurring Billing Company About Us Learn About Chargebacks911 Corporate Responsibility Helping Others Careers We're Hiring! News What's Happening Press What Others are Saying Events Meet and Connect Contact Us Get Started Login Fraud Detection Outlining Key Components of a Good Strategy, Plus the Top 10 Service Providers of the Year February 28, 2023 | 24 min read This image was created by artificial intelligence using the following prompts: A team of investigators fighting ecommerce fraud using technology, colored red and teal, all other colors muted, wide angle shot, plain background Articles Fraud Prevention Fraud Detection In a Nutshell Reviewing orders to try and detect fraud is a necessity for any eCommerce operation. But what does an effective fraud detection solution look like, and how can you tailor it to suit your individual needs? Most importantly, how do you go about finding the right tools and services to fit your specific needs? Let’s find out. Table of contents What is the Best Fraud Detection Solution? What Should it Do & How Do You Gauge Its Effectiveness? What is Fraud Detection? What Should Your Fraud Detection Strategy Help You Accomplish? What Does a Fraud Detection Strategy Entail? Identifying the Right Fraud Detection Tools Fraud Detection Systems: “Built-in” vs. “In-House” Fraud Detection Systems: API-Based vs. Cloud-Based Blended Fraud Detection Strategies are Best Top 10 Fraud Detection Service Providers Optimize Your Online Fraud Detection FAQs What is the Best Fraud Detection Solution? What Should it Do & How Do You Gauge Its Effectiveness? Here’s a startling statistic: card-not-present channels now account for roughly 80% of all fraudulent transactions in the US. Investing in resources to detect fraud is an absolute necessity for any business that accepts and processes card-not-present transactions. But, to meet this challenge, you need to craft a comprehensive game plan. What kind of fraud detection strategy is right for your business? What exactly should it entail? And, should you build your own in-house solution or hire a fraud detection service to handle the heavy lifting? We’ll cover all that and more below. First, though, let’s outline what exactly we’re talking about. Recommended reading The Top 10 Fraud Detection Tools You Need to Have in 2024 What are Velocity Checks? How Do They Stop Fraud Attacks? ECI Indicators: How to Understand 3DS Response Codes What is Geolocation? A Key Anti-Fraud Tool for 2024 Proxy Piercing: How Merchants Can Use it to Prevent Fraud Card Verification Values: What Are CVVs & How Do They Work? What is Fraud Detection? Fraud detection is a series of manual and automated processes aimed at identifying and responding to fraudulent activity. It entails a lot more than just deploying a couple of fraud filters at checkout: Embed This Graphic Fraud detection operations may be executed through automated frameworks like machine learning software , or through a series of manual practices . In most cases, you’ll require some combination of the two. The aim here is to go beyond simply spotting fraudulent transactions before it’s too late. A good approach will also help you identify trends, patterns, and flaws in your current fraud prevention strategy. You need to be able to compare suspicious transactions to other incoming data and verify trends and potential patterns to prevent them from reoccurring later on. What Should Your Fraud Detection Strategy Help You Accomplish? Your strategy should help you spot and resolve current attacks, fix weaknesses in your internal practices and systems, and prevent future offenses. With the right strategy in place, you should see: Accurate Risk Scoring In order to resolve flawed systems and address incoming attacks, you need to know when, where, and how they’re happening. Fraud scoring is intended to sort transactions according to predetermined triggers, such as location, transaction history, and user authentication. Richer Data Fraud detection relies on accurate data analysis to paint a clear picture of each individual transaction. Managers should be able to look up users based on historical transactions, email, or other identifying characteristics to evaluate the trustworthiness of that user based on previous data. Better Customer Relationships A fraud detection strategy isn’t just about identifying potential bad actors. It’s also about protecting your relationship with legitimate customers. Everyone appreciates knowing their data is in good hands when they shop. Closer Social Media Integration Not every type of fraud is easily detectable. First-party fraud , for example, is a post-transactional threat that doesn’t happen until well after the transaction has been finalized. With social media lookup features, merchants can confirm user identities, ascertain compliance, or determine if their products are being used illicitly. A User-Friendly Interface Fraud detection systems are often complex and difficult to navigate. That’s especially true for patchwork systems that are compiled without a good strategic rationale. Your UX interface should include improved visual data analysis and should be customizable and easy to follow. Scalability Scaling your fraud detection solutions to suit your budget is a wise move. Paying per API can limit overzealous fraud scoring efforts that often lead to false declines and other headaches by limiting triggers and scoring fields. Fewer Chargebacks An effective fraud detection solution should help you avoid chargebacks , too. While you may not be able to completely stop disputes from rolling in, a smart fraud detection strategy can help you eliminate a large number of potentially fraudulent transactions that could lead to chargebacks later on. Fraud detection is one investment you can’t afford to skip. What Does a Fraud Detection Strategy Entail? Most fraud detection strategies include some form of data gathering and analysis. Specifically, these break down into two separate techniques: statistical analysis and artificial intelligence-based analysis through machine learning. Embed This Graphic Let’s go over both techniques in greater detail. Statistical Analysis This can be performed either through a series of system-based operations (through a POS terminal or CRM management system), or it can be done manually. The function here is to detect and gather potentially fraudulent data, compare it against any historical data, and then confirm if the data appears fraudulent or not. Statistical analysis techniques include: Establishing Parameters: Statistical parameters will be established based on averages, performance metrics, and probability ranges for accurate data capturing. Data Matching: Comparing data points to eliminate duplicate records and establish links between data sets. Variable Analysis: Analyzing the potential relationship between two or more variables and comparing incoming data and historical data to establish patterns. Probability Factoring: Mapping the probability of fraudulent activities based on data captures and analysis to determine the likelihood of fraud. Machine Learning Many merchants have switched the majority of their fraud detection efforts to AI-based machine learning software . AI is able to effectively observe, identify, and isolate incoming data much faster than a human being. It can also swiftly filter that data according to predetermined rulesets. Some of the techniques that AI-based fraud detection systems utilize include: Data Mining: Machine learning systems can collect and filter data in real-time. Data can be mined from a preselected group of characteristics, then associations can be made that signify fraud patterns. Neural Classification: AI fraud software utilizes neural network functionality to classify incoming data and identify associations. Flagged data will proceed through a series of interconnected rulesets. Pattern Recognition: After the neural net, data can be scanned for fraudulent patterns. For example, if a transaction meets preset fraud parameters, it will be sorted for more screening or flagged for manual review. Become a Full-Fledged Chargeback Genius The only resource you need to become an expert on chargebacks, customer disputes, and friendly fraud. Download the Guide As the name implies, machine learning software is capable of “learning” appropriate actions based on the amount and quality of data it is fed. Machine learning can, therefore, become more accurate over time. But, although this system is incredibly advanced and innovative, it must be guided by human oversight to function properly. A machine isn’t capable of making complex, logical decisions based on conflicting data points. The machine can only sort and flag that information according to predetermined rules. This is why we encourage most merchants to try a blended approach (more on this later). Learn more about machine learning Identifying the Right Fraud Detection Tools The specific fraud detection tools you deploy will be a key point of your strategy. You can’t simply deploy one or two disparate tools, with no strategy for how to coordinate them, and expect to see results. Rising to meet a dynamic challenge like third-party fraud means having multiple tools in place, all working in tandem. Think about it like a net: the finer the mesh, the more you’ll catch . Criminals targeting your business will have their work cut out for them if you adopt the right fraud detection software, hardware, and monitoring tools, then deploy them in a strategic manner. Some key fraud detection tools we recommend include: Geolocation Proxy Piercing Device Fingerprinting Address Verification Service (AVS) Velocity Checks Learn more about fraud detection tools Fraud Detection Systems: “Built-in” vs. “In-House” Each of the fraud detection techniques listed above can be used through a variety of merchant-facing systems, including self-managed approaches and third-party service providers. To fully understand your options, let’s take a closer look at the pros and cons of each: Built-In Fraud Detection In many cases, your payment processor will provide built-in options for fraud prevention. These generally consist of pre-loaded software that runs checks on a per-transaction basis, and reports are usually accessible through your eCommerce portal. Some processors offer select fraud solutions standard to all customers, while more making more comprehensive fraud protection an “opt-in” service. Shopify’s Fraud Protect , for example, must be enabled by the merchant. The main benefit to this process is data sharing . Many cards will have been run on that particular processing platform more than once; even when this isn’t the case, often the users can be identified through historical records. There are some downsides to consider, though. Pros: Simplest option. Many of these built-in tools are effectively a “plug and play” option for fraud detection. Most cost effective, as they’re typically offered for free as a component of service. Open data gives you the benefit of a much larger body of data for more informed risk analysis . Cons: Payment processors tend to “play it safe” when rejecting transactions. Could lead to false negatives and lost customers. You will have little control over setting parameters to reject or accept transactions. Lack the ability to take a closer look at each transaction for gray areas like suspected friendly fraud. Save time. Recover revenue. Prevent more chargebacks. In-House Fraud Detection In-house fraud detection systems offer full control over your fraud review processes and also allow full control over data protection and integrations. Autonomy is an attractive prospect, which makes many merchants happy to deploy staffing resources to keep their fraud prevention in-house. This system can work well. However, success — or failure — hinges on whether you have the staff, technical know-how, and resources available. For all but the smallest operations, it may be necessary to maintain a dedicated fraud management department. Pros: Total autonomy. You can control exactly how fraud is handled, what standards are used, what indicators are considered, etc. Costs are more transparent; in-house management can give you more insight into how resources and time get allocated. If you identify new trends in fraud activity, you can respond by altering your strategy in real time. Cons: Limited data insight. The body of data you generate is your only indicator;  you could miss broader trends and developing threats. Hiring additional or part-time seasonal staff (during the holidays, for example) will mean costs are uncertain and hard to plan. Not cost-effective; you’ll have to allocate resources that could be used more effectively in other areas of the company. In-house systems seem great for the control they give you, but ultimately, it can become an uncertain drain on your expenses. As we’ll see below, it might be wise to consider another option. Fraud Detection Systems: API-Based vs. Cloud-Based Of course, another option is to simply offload the burden of fraud detection onto a third party. Third-party service providers offer a full catalog of varying fraud detection solutions that cater to every merchant type and budget. Although some fraud detection services offer staffing and other manual review benefits as a premium perk, most utilize one (or both) of the integration models below: API-Based Integrations Advanced Programming Interfaces, or APIs, allow users to program to a pre-constructed interface, instead of individually programming a device or piece of software. The use of APIs in fraud prevention allows your provider to tailor products to your specific needs. This means that the service provider will offer you a menu of features and let you choose what works for your business. Essential features for this integration include: Affordability Scalability Real-Time Data Enrichment Functional UX Projected Return on Investment Keep in mind that API-driven providers may also involve hidden costs. Licensing issues can arise if you require more than one provider, which can impact costs. Additionally, you may require additional platform integrations that can increase your front-end investment, development, and maintenance costs. Cloud-Based Integrations Cloud-based integrations are a next step up from API-centric integrations because they are faster, more comprehensive, and require fewer maintenance resources. If costs are a concern, cloud-based options can have a positive impact on your bottom line. Perks include: Faster Data Retrieval Real-Time Data Analysis High-Limit (or Unlimited) Data Storage Upgrades & Bug Fixes Come Standard Same as the API model, though, there are some downsides to cloud-based integrations to consider. There could be a higher user learning curve, as well as additional costs like hardware, integration, and support fees. Blended Fraud Detection Strategies are Best Developing a fraud detection strategy doesn’t have to be a question of “build” or “buy.” A hybrid strategy, based on a close working relationship between your internal team and a third-party service provider, offers you the best of both worlds. You have intimate operational knowledge offered by your internal team. At the same time, you have access to the expansive data and expertise that a professional online fraud detection service brings to the table. 50 Insider Tips for Preventing More Chargebacks In this exclusive guide, we outline the 50 most effective tools and strategies to reduce the overall number of chargebacks you receive. Get the FREE guide Remember, though: an off-the-rack, “cookie-cutter” solution is not what you need. No two businesses have the same risk, so a “one-size-fits-all,” automated solution will ultimately be ineffective. With that in mind, here are a few points to consider when looking for the right service provider for your needs: What are the guarantees? And what are those guarantees based on? If the price is based on transaction volume, can you analyze future growth potential well enough to budget accordingly? Are there client testimonials? Are you able to speak with current customers? Is the vendor adaptable and agile enough to support future technology and fraud developments? Can they grow with your company? Do they have prior experience with merchants in your vertical? Partners who understand merchant experiences will be more effective at minimizing risk without compromising growth. Do they specialize in certain product verticals or risk profiles? If so, do those specialties align with the contours of your business? Now that we’ve gone over what fraud detection is, how it works, and which methods you might deploy — let’s talk about the best fraud detection service providers available today. Top 10 Fraud Detection Service Providers The provider you should turn to for fraud solutions depends on the specific areas where you need help. This list is in no way exhaustive. However, it does showcase a few of the most reputable vendors and their specialties. Also, note that these are objective recommendations. We took a detailed look at the highest-rated fraud prevention companies in operation today, and developed a rundown of the leading service providers. Ratings and reviews were averaged based on real customer reviews from sources including G2 , TrustRadius , Software Suggest , and Gartner . The “pros” and “cons” we mention are also paraphrased directly from real, firsthand customer reviews. #1 | Signifyd G2 ranks Signifyd as the #1 eCommerce fraud protection service available. Signifyd provides an end‑to‑end Commerce Protection Platform. This platform leverages their Commerce Network to maximize conversion, automate customer experience, and eliminate fraud and customer abuse for retailers. Signifyd uses big data and machine learning to provide a 100% financial guarantee against fraud and chargebacks on approved orders. This effectively shifts the liability for fraud away from eCommerce merchants, allowing them to increase sales and open new markets while reducing risk. Major Clients: Embed This Graphic Pros: Integrates seamlessly and is easy to use The Payments Optimization module works with strong customer authentication (SCA) , which helps with compliance for EU-based payments Transactions are generally approved in seconds Cons: It can be very costly for an enterprise-type customer No real-time data Sometimes the human (non-automated) review process can take longer to complete in cases where additional verifying information is needed from the customer Pricing: Call for a free quote. Extra Perks: APIs Free Demo Automated Chargeback Prevention #2 | Arkose Labs Arkose Labs’s fraud deterrence platform eliminates sophisticated bots, frustrates fraudsters, and delivers user-centric account security. Combining real-time risk classification with dynamic challenges, the AI-powered platform uses enterprise-grade CAPTCHAs to defeat persistent bot and fraud farm attacks and protect platforms from account takeovers , fake account creation, spam, scraping, and more. Major Clients: Embed This Graphic Pros: Easy to integrate with existing websites and workflows Constantly improving their product, adding new challenges, monitoring traffic, and suggesting additional integration strategies Tailors enforcement mechanisms to specific needs Cons: Lacks an API endpoint that provides real-time monitoring and the capability to configure alerts Pricey; not ideal for start up companies seeking immediate ROI Requires front-end integration Pricing: Call for a free quote. Extra Perks: Free Demo #3 | NoFraud NoFraud is an eCommerce fraud prevention and checkout solution that protects businesses from fraudsters, eliminates chargeback losses, and provides smoother, more frictionless checkout experiences for trusted shoppers. NoFraud integrates directly with eCommerce platforms to scan every order for signs of fraud in real-time. They use a combination of powerful algorithms and proactive human review to provide simple pass-or-fail decisions for every transaction. Their aim is to eliminate the need to manually review orders or monitor fraud scores, and provide a 100% financial guarantee for chargebacks. NoFraud Checkout also dynamically adapts the number of input fields based on customer risk factors. More trustworthy shoppers are sped through, while riskier shoppers must provide more information. Major Clients: Embed This Graphic Pros: Seamless integration; easy to use and navigate Excellent customer service and tech support Decreases chargebacks Cons: Software is extremely sensitive; flags some orders needlessly The integration ranks at the higher end of the pricing scale They only cover purchases up to $2,000, but will increase the limit (for an additional fee) Pricing: Call for a free quote Extra Perks: APIs Free Demo #4 | DataDome DataDome protects mobile apps, websites and APIs from online fraud, including scraping, scalping, credential stuffing , and account takeover. They also protect against layer 7 DDoS attacks and carding fraud. Their AI-powered bot detection engine processes more than one trillion pieces of data every day, from 25 worldwide points of presence. This helps protect some of the world’s largest global eCommerce businesses in real time. DataDome is easily deployed and is compatible with 100% of web infrastructure technologies, thanks to strong technical and business partnerships with market leaders. It runs anywhere, in any cloud, and is compatible with multi-cloud and multi-CDN setups. Major Clients: Embed This Graphic Pros: Seamless, instinctual interface without a lot of noise Customizable rulesets with excellent onboarding Provides SDK (software development kit) integrations that simplify coding obfuscations and coupling challenges Cons: No ‘out of box’ API augmentation (manages internal systems only) Software is sensitive; can lead to false negatives No APIs with intro platform Pricing: Entry level price of $2,990 Extra Perks: Free Quote #5 | Seon SEON helps its customers uncover fraud patterns and generate new revenue streams. Intelligent risk scoring with AI and machine learning adapts to your business risk evaluation. This means you get full visibility and complete control over every interaction, order, account, transaction, and opportunity. Major Clients: Embed This Graphic Pros: Seamless integration with a wide range of data points Detailed IP geolocation checks, screening of personal data for fraudulent indicators, checks social media profiles, and the rules management system is quite easy to use without specific knowledge Platform is extremely well organized Cons: Lacks the means to export a full blacklist or internal scoring data points Loading customers into the system can take a while IP checks could be more precise with mobile IPs Pricing: Starting at €299 Extra Perks: APIs Free Demo #6 | Riskified Riskified uses powerful machine-learning algorithms to instantly recognize good customers and weed out bad ones with a 100% chargeback guarantee. Merchants can safely approve more orders, expand internationally, and eliminate the costs of fraud while providing a frictionless customer experience. Major Clients: Embed This Graphic Pros: It's easy to filter through thousands of orders to identify general trends Obtain quick responses and solutions when submitting claims and reimbursements The effectiveness of the product; does not require heavy maintenance Cons: Sometimes people are flagged for no reason Focusing purely on fraud prevention means merchants in the EU need to handle 3DS/PSD2 on their own There are no mobile SDKs, yet more than 50% of eCommerce is mobile in some countries Pricing: Call for a free quote Extra Perks: APIs Chargeback Guarantee Real-Time Monitoring #7 | Sift Sift, formerly Sift Science, empowers companies of all sizes to unlock revenue without risk. Industry leaders like Twitter, DoorDash , and Twilio rely on Sift to stay competitive and secure. Sift prevents fraud with industry-leading technology and expertise, an unrivaled global data network, and a commitment to building long-term partnerships with our customers. Their Digital Trust & Safety Suite prevents fraudulent payments, fake accounts, spam, scams, and account takeover. They reduce false positives and power frictionless experiences in the process. Major Clients: Embed This Graphic Pros: Easy to use and provides excellent visibility about any suspicious behavior Automate workflows are very flexible and easy to understand Straightforward integration Cons: Route building and initial configuration of workflows could be improved Does not always accurately link accounts Product is priced relatively high Pricing: Volume based pricing. Call for a free quote Extra Perks: APIs Free Quote Real-Time Monitoring #8 | Kount Kount’s AI-driven Identity Trust Platform protects the complete customer journey for more than 9,000 leading brands and payment processors. Powered by its Identity Trust Global Network ™, Kount, An Equifax Company, links billions of trust and fraud signals to protect every interaction. It provides end-to-end coverage from account creation and login to payments and disputes. Major Clients: Embed This Graphic Pros: Kount RIS API is very clear, concise, and easy to implement The approve/decline model has proven to be a seamless experience Also checks a customer’s chargeback history Cons: Many different clients and customers are automatically flagged with a low Omniscore Decline rules are very limited Datamart BI reporting tool is not optimized, and limited Pricing: Two-tier pricing based on small business and mid-market models Extra Perks: APIs Real-Time Monitoring Payment Verification #9 | ClearSale ClearSale’s balanced approach to eCommerce fraud protection and prevention yields the highest approval rates and lowest false-positive rates in the industry. Having been in business for over two decades and running, and with a 99% retention rate, that’s really saying something. ClearSale does business in over 160 countries. They’ve won several awards for stellar customer service and proven value as a top fraud prevention brand. Major Clients: Embed This Graphic Pros: Completely seamless integration Ease of use and dashboard implementation Extremely high customer service ratings Cons: Unclear service charges KPI’s and analytics are not always communicated effectively Unclear attribution factors corresponding to the source of the converted sale Pricing: Two-tiered payment plan, with a free trial period for either. Extra Perks: Free Trial Plug and Play Service Real-Time Monitoring #10 | Prove Prove is an emerging star in the fraud detection services game. They offer phone-centric solutions that enable clients to acquire new consumers and engage with their existing consumers. This is done by removing friction while bolstering security and enhancing consumer privacy & consumer choice. Prove Pre-Fill™ enables companies to drive more signups by auto-filling forms with authenticated identity data, to accelerate revenue while mitigating fraud across mobile, desktop, tablet, contact center, and in-store channels. Major Clients: Embed This Graphic Pros: Seamless integration and swift onboarding Offer a robust series of products, from Payfone Pre-fill to soft authentication like Payfone TrustScore, to even more friction-induced authentication products like Instant Link Offers additional optimization services Cons: Password-protected documentation is slow-loading and difficult to sort Slight overlap between Trust and Verify products Some of Prove's products rely on third-party data such as Mobile Network Operations (MNOs) and credit bureaus, but their latest mobile-first products do not have this dependency and rely only on data gathered via SDK Pricing: Call for a free quote Extra Perks: APIs Real-Time Monitoring 50 Insider Tips for Preventing More Chargebacks In this exclusive guide, we outline the 50 most effective tools and strategies to reduce the overall number of chargebacks you receive. Get the FREE guide Optimize Your Online Fraud Detection Fraud detection is complex, and even with the right strategy, there’s no guarantee that you’ll see optimal results. Most conventional fraud tools are very limited in terms of their response to first-party fraud , for instance. So, why not improve your odds? Chargebacks911® should be an integral part of any multilayer fraud management system. We work closely with in-house management teams to create a customized integration, along with the most comprehensive, transparent, end-to-end outsourcing option available. Our solutions increase revenue retention and make fraud detection and chargeback mitigation tasks more efficient. We allow our clients to reallocate resources to revenue-generating departments. And, of course, this is all backed by the industry’s only performance-based ROI guarantee. Contact us today to learn more about our solutions and how Chargebacks911 can help optimize your online fraud detection efforts. FAQs How is fraud usually detected? Fraud detection is a series of manual and automated processes aimed at identifying and responding to potential acts of fraud. Fraud detection is usually carried out through automated frameworks like machine learning software, a series of manual review practices , or some combination of the two. The process usually involves fraud detection tools like AVS, geolocation, and 3-D Secure . What are the types of fraud detection? Most fraud detection strategies include some form of data gathering and analysis. Specifically, these break down into two separate techniques: statistical analysis and artificial intelligence-based analysis through machine learning. What is the most common fraud detection method? Often, your merchant services provider or payment processor will provide built-in options for fraud prevention. These generally consist of pre-loaded software that runs checks on a per-transaction basis. For more comprehensive fraud protection , you may have to opt-in. Shopify’s Fraud Protect, for example, must be enabled by the merchant. Should I outsource my fraud detection? It depends on the specifics of your business. Third-party fraud detection systems are intended to take the burden of fraud prevention and management from your shoulders in a way that still allows you some agency. However, this isn’t to imply that this is the best method for every merchant. If your company has a higher chargeback ratio, for instance, you may need a more multi-layered strategy than merchants with no chargeback issues. How Do I find the right fraud solution? A one-size-fits-all, automated solution will ultimately be ineffective. So, you need to weigh candidates against the specifics of your business. But generally speaking, a hybrid strategy, built on a close working relationship between your internal team and a third-party service provider, will offer the best results. With a hybrid in-house and outsource solution, you have intimate operational knowledge offered by your internal team. At the same time, you have access to the expansive data and expertise that a professional online fraud detection service brings to the table. Ready to get started? We Take the Guesswork Out of Chargeback Management Request a Demo You might also like... December 6, 2024 | 9 min read Geolocation What is Geolocation? A Key Anti-Fraud Tool for 2024 Fraud Prevention November 22, 2024 | 10 min read Velocity Checks What are Velocity Checks? How Do They Stop Fraud Attacks? Fraud Prevention November 7, 2024 | 10 min read Proxy Piercing Proxy Piercing: How Merchants Can Use it to Prevent Fraud Fraud Prevention Join the conversation Like What You're Reading? Join our newsletter and stay up to date on the latest in payments and eCommerce trends. Newsletter Signup Ready to get started? We Take the Guesswork Out of Chargeback Management Request a Demo Information Chargeback Scheme Chargeback Win Rate Myths Chargeback vs. Refund Credit Card Authorization Codes Mastercard Chargeback Rules Chargeback Alerts Geolocation Synthetic Identity Theft Information Chargeback Disputes Chargeback Management Software Mastercard Reason Codes Credit Card Dispute Credit Card Dispute Time Limit Visa Chargeback Reason Codes Chargeback Process High-Risk Merchant Account Resources Articles Webinars Studies Guides & Whitepapers Chargeback Reason Codes BIN Lookup ROI Tool Glossary Company About Us Careers We're hiring! In The Press Latest News Events Corporate Responsibility Brand Resources Scam Alert Contact Us United States 18167 US Highway 19 N Clearwater, FL 33764 877.634.9808 info@chargebacks911.com Europe Vantage House 6-7 Claydons Lane Rayleigh, Essex, SS6 7UP +44 (0) 2037 505550 877.634.9808 Copyright © 2024 Chargebacks911® Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions We’ll run the numbers; You’ll see the savings. Stop losing money to chargebacks. Let us show you how much you could save. Have a question? Give us a call to speak with an expert. 877.634.9808 Please share a few details and we'll connect with you! First Name * Last Name * Email * Company Name * Phone Number * * Afghanistan (‫افغانستان‬‎) Albania (Shqipëri) Algeria (‫الجزائر‬‎) American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia (Հայաստան) Aruba Australia Austria (Österreich) Azerbaijan (Azərbaycan) Bahamas Bahrain (‫البحرين‬‎) Bangladesh (বাংলাদেশ) Barbados Belarus (Беларусь) Belgium (België) Belize Benin (Bénin) Bermuda Bhutan (འབྲུག) Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina (Босна и Херцеговина) Botswana Brazil (Brasil) British Indian Ocean Territory British Virgin Islands Brunei Bulgaria (България) Burkina Faso Burundi (Uburundi) Cambodia (កម្ពុជា) Cameroon (Cameroun) Canada Cape Verde (Kabu Verdi) Caribbean Netherlands Cayman Islands Central African Republic (République centrafricaine) Chad (Tchad) Chile China (中国) Colombia Comoros (‫جزر القمر‬‎) Congo (DRC) (Jamhuri ya Kidemokrasia ya Kongo) Congo (Republic) (Congo-Brazzaville) Cook Islands Costa Rica Côte d’Ivoire Croatia (Hrvatska) Cuba Curaçao Cyprus (Κύπρος) Czech Republic (Česká republika) Denmark (Danmark) Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic (República Dominicana) Ecuador Egypt (‫مصر‬‎) El Salvador Equatorial Guinea (Guinea Ecuatorial) Eritrea Estonia (Eesti) Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas) Faroe Islands (Føroyar) Fiji Finland (Suomi) France French Guiana (Guyane française) French Polynesia (Polynésie française) Gabon Gambia Georgia (საქართველო) Germany (Deutschland) Ghana (Gaana) Gibraltar Greece (Ελλάδα) Greenland (Kalaallit Nunaat) Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guinea (Guinée) Guinea-Bissau (Guiné Bissau) Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong (香港) Hungary (Magyarország) Iceland (Ísland) India (भारत) Indonesia Iran (‫ایران‬‎) Iraq (‫العراق‬‎) Ireland Israel (‫ישראל‬‎) Italy (Italia) Jamaica Japan (日本) Jordan (‫الأردن‬‎) Kazakhstan (Казахстан) Kenya Kiribati Kosovo Kuwait (‫الكويت‬‎) Kyrgyzstan (Кыргызстан) Laos (ລາວ) Latvia (Latvija) Lebanon (‫لبنان‬‎) Lesotho Liberia Libya (‫ليبيا‬‎) Liechtenstein Lithuania (Lietuva) Luxembourg Macau (澳門) Macedonia (FYROM) (Македонија) Madagascar (Madagasikara) Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania (‫موريتانيا‬‎) Mauritius (Moris) Mexico (México) Micronesia Moldova (Republica Moldova) Monaco Mongolia (Монгол) Montenegro (Crna Gora) Montserrat Morocco (‫المغرب‬‎) Mozambique (Moçambique) Myanmar (Burma) (မြန်မာ) Namibia (Namibië) Nauru Nepal (नेपाल) Netherlands (Nederland) New Caledonia (Nouvelle-Calédonie) New Zealand Nicaragua Niger (Nijar) Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island North Korea (조선 민주주의 인민 공화국) Northern Mariana Islands Norway (Norge) Oman (‫عُمان‬‎) Pakistan (‫پاکستان‬‎) Palau Palestine (‫فلسطين‬‎) Panama (Panamá) Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru (Perú) Philippines Poland (Polska) Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar (‫قطر‬‎) Réunion (La Réunion) Romania (România) Russia (Россия) Rwanda Saint Barthélemy (Saint-Barthélemy) Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin (Saint-Martin (partie française)) Saint Pierre and Miquelon (Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon) Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino São Tomé and Príncipe (São Tomé e Príncipe) Saudi Arabia (‫المملكة العربية السعودية‬‎) Senegal (Sénégal) Serbia (Србија) Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten Slovakia (Slovensko) Slovenia (Slovenija) Solomon Islands Somalia (Soomaaliya) South Africa South Korea (대한민국) South Sudan (‫جنوب السودان‬‎) Spain (España) Sri Lanka (ශ්‍රී ලංකාව) Sudan (‫السودان‬‎) Suriname Swaziland Sweden (Sverige) Switzerland (Schweiz) Syria (‫سوريا‬‎) Taiwan (台灣) Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand (ไทย) Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia (‫تونس‬‎) Turkey (Türkiye) Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu U.S. Virgin Islands Uganda Ukraine (Україна) United Arab Emirates (‫الإمارات العربية المتحدة‬‎) United Kingdom United States Uruguay Uzbekistan (Oʻzbekiston) Vanuatu Vatican City (Città del Vaticano) Venezuela Vietnam (Việt Nam) Wallis and Futuna Yemen (‫اليمن‬‎) Zambia Zimbabwe Avg Number of Chargebacks Per Month * Avg Number of Chargebacks Per Month Less Than 10 10 to 25 25 to 50 50 to 100 100 to 250 250 to 500 500+ Over 18,000 companies recovered revenue with products from Chargebacks911 Close Form Embed code has been copied to clipboard Embed this graphic Copy the provided embed code for this graphic and then paste the code into the HTML portion of your website or blog article. Having issues with the embed code? Contact Us Embed Code code here Copy embed code