g2.com

---

Best Identity Verification Platforms Identity verification platforms utilize additional personal information past a username or password to verify the identity of an individual. This additional information comes in various forms including date of birth, government-issued IDs, voice recognition, biometrics, or even facial recognition. Using identification verification allows for organizations to more accurately confirm the identity of an individual user. Identity verification is used across many industries such as social media, the financial sector, government establishments, technology and information, and... We've collected videos, features, and capabilities below. Take me there. All Products (1-25 of 107) Has Pricing 1 Trust Swiftly 6 reviews Has pricing Free trial In
an era where digital transactions and interactions have become the norm,
ensuring the security and trustworthiness of online identities has become a
paramount concern for businesses. Trust Swiftly is an identity
verification service that aims to simplify and enhance the process of user
authentication. By leveraging advanced technologies and robust security
measures, Trust Swiftly helps businesses to est… 2 ComplyCube 12 reviews Has pricing Free trial ComplyCube is an identity verification platform that automates Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and Know Your Customer (KYC) compliance for businesses. It offers features that enable businesses to verify customer identities through ID documents, biometrics, and government databases. The SaaS solution combines trusted data sources and expert human reviewers to enable businesses to achieve global AML/CTF compliance, convert more customers, and prevent fraud.… 3 RapidVerify 3 reviews Has pricing Free trial RapidVerify is a no-code solution designed for real-time identity and income verification. Key features of this Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) platform include: Real-Time Verification : RapidVerify offers identity and income verification, streamlining the user verificati… 4 Shufti Pro 0 reviews Has pricing Free trial Live demo Shufti Pro is an AI-powered identity verification solution that employs hybrid technology, artificial intelligence (AI) and human intelligence (HI) to provide accurate and robust identification solutions to eliminate risks, identity theft and financial crimes. Shufti Pro offers KYC, KYB and AML verification for organisation… 5 Persona 0 reviews Has pricing Persona enables businesses to verify customer identities with a drop-in widget that can be integrated in less than 10 lines of code. From selfie videos to government-issued IDs to database lookups, Persona offers a suite of automated identity verification components with worldwide… 6 ID.me 6 reviews Live demo ID.me is a digital identity network that aims to simplify the user's indication verification experience. 7 Ondato 2 reviews Has pricing Ondato is a compliance solution that enables adherence to strict KYC and AML processes. The platform serves as a standalone tool for user verification and onboarding. 8 Trustmatic 3 reviews Has pricing Free trial Founded in 2020, Trustmatic states their mission is to automate trust between businesses and their customers. Trustmati… 9 X-Ray.contact 0 reviews Has pricing Free trial A platform for searching information about people based on open-source data. It uses technologies to systemize and analyze data from open sources to provide the user with an understandable report on a targeted person. T… 10 Socure 0 reviews Live demo Socure is an AI-powered identity verification system designed to help financial services companies prevent identity fraud losses and remain compliant. The system is comprised of ID+, the identity verification mechanism, a KYC (Know Your Customers) Compliance add-on, which uses additional… 11 Cognito Identity Verification 0 reviews Has pricing Cognito, formerly BlockScore and a Plaid company since the January 2022 acquisition, is focused on simplifying identity verification through technology integrations and partnerships. Cognito empowers customers with technology for optimizing the customer signup experience, developer-… 12 Berbix 1 review Has pricing Free trial Live demo Berbix helps users verify photo IDs. Berbix ID checks enable platforms to verify age, enhance KYC, deter marketplace fraud, and validate data subject requests. Berbix is founded by the former leaders for Trust & Safety at Airbnb and backed by Y Combinator. 13 iDenfy 1 review Has pricing Live demo Identity verification services that increase the rate of successfully onboarded customers, decrease the real users' drop-off rate and 100% prevent fraud. Its pricing model is to pay only per approved user (drop-offs, fraudulent users, not real customers, not completed verifications… 14 Token of Trust 0 reviews Free trial Token of Trust presents a way to verify people and view their reputations. Organizations can use Token of Trust to screen transactions, customers and users across more than 130 countries. Token of Trust’s platform enables organizations to screen sensitive transactions for safety… 15 Udentify 0 reviews Has pricing Free trial Fraud.com develops technologies to help financial institutions tackle fraud through one unified solution. Udentify is an identity verification and biometric authentication solution that proves someone is who they say they are via face & voice recognition coupled with liveness detection.… 16 Kount, an Equifax company 16 reviews Live demo Kount Fraud Detection Software is an option from the company of the same name in Boise, Idaho. 17 MeridianLink Mortgage Credit Link (MCL) 0 reviews Mortgage Credit Link (MCL) is a plug-and-play web-based order fulfillment hub. It simplifies product ordering with an web interface and integrated tools for order fulfillment. The solution provides verification services and services such as trended credit data and analytics. Its… 18 Onfido 1 review Free trial Live demo Onfido simplifies identity verification with a platform used by over 900 businesses with the goal of navigating KYC and AML requirements, stopping fraud, and delivering exceptional onboarding experiences. 19 RECOGNITO 0 reviews RECOGNITO is a provider of face biometric verification and authentication solutions. With RECOGNITO's NIST FRVT Face Recognition technology, clients provide safer environments for their valued customers, patients, guests, employees, and associates. - Product • Face Liveness Detection SDK: DeepFake Detectable, 2D/3D Liveness Detecti… 20 HID Livescan Management Software (LSMS) 0 reviews HID Livescan Management Software (LSMS) provides software to meet biometric enrollment, verification or identification requirements. Designed to support the rapid, high quality capture of multiple biometrics, LSMS integrates required biographical data, whether input directly or imported,… 21 Regula Document Reader SDK 0 reviews Regula Document Reader SDK is a standalone software product that enhances the ID verification process from any source: mobile, web, or docume… 22 Kilt 0 reviews Live demo KILT Protocol is a decentralized blockchain identity protocol for issuing self-sovereign, anonymous and verifiable credentials. The protocol supports business models around identity, addressing the need for reliable and verifiable identity solutions in the digital world. KILT brings… 23 HID IDV 0 reviews Free trial HID’s Identity Verification Service (IDV) is an AI-powered solution for smooth digital onboarding, presented as ideal for highly regulated industries such as banking and other financial services providers. The solution helps to fight against ID theft, fraud and money laundering. This… 24 Lightico e-Signatures 2 reviews Has pricing Free trial Lightico offers a simple eSign & document sharing solution for call agents to get customer IDs and signatures while speaking on phone. No app is required. According to the vendor, while speaking with customers on the phone... - call agents seamlessly capture customer ID… 25 Veriff 0 reviews Has pricing Free trial Veriff, a software company headquartered in Estonia, offers highly automated, mobile identity verification solutions so users always know their customers. Learn More About Identity Verification Platforms What are Identity Verification Platforms? Identity verification platforms utilize additional personal information past a username or password to verify the identity of an individual. This additional information comes in various forms including date of birth, government-issued IDs, voice recognition, biometrics, or even facial recognition. Using identification verification allows for organizations to more accurately confirm the identity of an individual user. Identity verification is used across many industries such as social media, the financial sector, government establishments, technology and information, and many more. As more organizations switch to digital transactions, the demand for identity verification platforms has increased. Many governments and countries are pushing for stronger identity verification practices through anti-fraud laws and regulations to cut down on identity theft-related crimes. Identity verification also protects a business by verifying new employees and performing background checks on customers. This reduces internal instances of identity theft, fraudulent transactions, and potential unauthorized access to an organization’s information. These platforms will also typically leverage a variety of resources, such as databases and document scanners, to aid in the verification process. Identity Verification Platform Features Most products in the identity verification platforms have the following features: eSignatures Multi-factor authentication Machine learning protocols Age verification Document uploading Biometric scanners Facial recognition scanners Public record access tools Integrations with databases Fraudulent purchase detection Notification systems for alerts and possible threats Identity Verification Platform Comparison Before purchasing an identity verification platform, an organization should consider the following factors: Verification Speed: For businesses with high traffic, the ability to verify users and customers quickly is important to improve services provided and draw more customer traffic. Businesses with a large traffic flow, should consider a vendor with fast verification return times. This can help to balance their security needs, and create a smooth customer experience. Geolocation Services: Businesses should consider whether a platform that offers geolocation services might be useful. Geolocation services allow an organization to pinpoint logins based on the device being used and where it is being used. This information provides an organization with necessary insight which can be used to tweak their services to align with local and federal laws. It also increases security measures for both the user and the organization. Depth of Verification: The depth of verification should also be considered. Some organizations might only need to confirm a date of birth and a name, while others may need users to physically scan in documents that can be run against internal databases. Ultimately, it’s important to consider what depth of verification your organization needs. Some platforms specialize in specific types of verification and may be better suited for special use cases. Start an identity verification platform comparison here Pricing Information Pricing for identity verification platforms is typically offered by vendors as a monthly rate ranging from free to a couple hundred dollars a month. Some services will also charge an additional $1.00 to $2.00 per verification request or successful verification. Typically, most vendors will also provide a free trial to users to try out their products. Related Categories Authentication Systems Fraud Detection Software Mobile Identity Software Identity Management Solutions Certificate Lifecycle Management Software Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Software Loan Origination Software Secret Managers Frequently Asked Questions What does Identity Verification Software do? What are the benefits of using Identity Verification Software? How much does Identity Verification Software cost? What does Identity Verification Software do? Identity Verification Software is utilized by businesses to validate the identity of users and customers, and to protect their platform from fraudulent activities. The software also ensures an organization remains in compliance with anti-fraud laws and regulations. What are the benefits of using Identity Verification Software? Identity Verification Software allows businesses to verify the identities of customers and users. This data can then be used to protect data and information from potential threats, such as denial of service attacks. The result is increased security, increased customer trust, and validation of digital transactions from one party to another. How much does Identity Verification Software cost? Pricing for Identity Verification Software is typically offered by vendors as a monthly rate ranging from free to a couple hundred dollars a month. Some services will also charge an additional $1.00 to $2.00 per verification request or successful verification. Typically, most vendors will also provide a free trial to users to try out their products. Home Identity Verification Platforms

---

AI-Powered Identity Verification | Drive Growth | Veriff.com The Veriff Identity Fraud report 2025 is now available. Discover the latest fraud trends! Talk to us THE IDENTITY VERIFICATION PLATFORM Identity Verification The AI-powered identity verification platform for fraud prevention, compliance, and safeguarding your customers. Build trusted digital communities, improve UX, and drive growth for your business with Veriff. Talk to us Try for free The fraud-fighting platform Faster, more accurate, and built for you: fraud prevention done right Our combination of AI and human verification teams ensures bad actors are kept at bay and genuine users experience minimal friction in their customer journey. Fraud Protect Make identity verification quick and easy by helping genuine users get verified the first time, while keeping fraudsters out Product 1 / 4 Identity Verification 01 Identity and Document Verification Powerful document and identity verification for streamlined onboarding Go to product Proof of Address Approve more users and reduce friction with Proof of Address Go to product Database Verification Checks Comply with regulations using our comprehensive Database Verification Checks Go to product Age Validation Automate your age checks to safeguard all users Go to product Know Your Customer 02 KYC Onboarding Streamline your KYC Onboarding checks Go to product AML Screening Protect your business with AML Screening and ongoing monitoring Go to product Biometric Verification 03 Biometric Authentication Go passwordless and secure accounts easily Go to product Age Estimation Increase conversions with a selfie-based age check Go to product Fraud Mitigation 04 Fraud Protect Protect your business from identity fraud Go to product Fraud Intelligence Elevate your fraud mitigation efforts with advanced intelligence Go to product Identity Verification 01 Identity and Document Verification Powerful document and identity verification for streamlined onboarding Go to product Proof of Address Approve more users and reduce friction with Proof of Address Go to product Database Verification Checks Comply with regulations using our comprehensive Database Verification Checks Go to product Age Validation Automate your age checks to safeguard all users Go to product Know Your Customer 02 KYC Onboarding Streamline your KYC Onboarding checks Go to product AML Screening Protect your business with AML Screening and ongoing monitoring Go to product Biometric Verification 03 Biometric Authentication Go passwordless and secure accounts easily Go to product Age Estimation Increase conversions with a selfie-based age check Go to product Fraud Mitigation 04 Fraud Protect Protect your business from identity fraud Go to product Fraud Intelligence Elevate your fraud mitigation efforts with advanced intelligence Go to product Identity Verification 01 Identity and Document Verification Powerful document and identity verification for streamlined onboarding Go to product Proof of Address Approve more users and reduce friction with Proof of Address Go to product Database Verification Checks Comply with regulations using our comprehensive Database Verification Checks Go to product Age Validation Automate your age checks to safeguard all users Go to product Know Your Customer 02 KYC Onboarding Streamline your KYC Onboarding checks Go to product AML Screening Protect your business with AML Screening and ongoing monitoring Go to product Biometric Verification 03 Biometric Authentication Go passwordless and secure accounts easily Go to product Age Estimation Increase conversions with a selfie-based age check Go to product Fraud Mitigation 04 Fraud Protect Protect your business from identity fraud Go to product Fraud Intelligence Elevate your fraud mitigation efforts with advanced intelligence Go to product Identity Verification 01 Identity and Document Verification Powerful document and identity verification for streamlined onboarding Go to product Proof of Address Approve more users and reduce friction with Proof of Address Go to product Database Verification Checks Comply with regulations using our comprehensive Database Verification Checks Go to product Age Validation Automate your age checks to safeguard all users Go to product Know Your Customer 02 KYC Onboarding Streamline your KYC Onboarding checks Go to product AML Screening Protect your business with AML Screening and ongoing monitoring Go to product Biometric Verification 03 Biometric Authentication Go passwordless and secure accounts easily Go to product Age Estimation Increase conversions with a selfie-based age check Go to product Fraud Mitigation 04 Fraud Protect Protect your business from identity fraud Go to product Fraud Intelligence Elevate your fraud mitigation efforts with advanced intelligence Go to product Identity Verification 01 Identity and Document Verification Powerful document and identity verification for streamlined onboarding Go to product Proof of Address Approve more users and reduce friction with Proof of Address Go to product Database Verification Checks Comply with regulations using our comprehensive Database Verification Checks Go to product Age Validation Automate your age checks to safeguard all users Go to product Know Your Customer 02 KYC Onboarding Streamline your KYC Onboarding checks Go to product AML Screening Protect your business with AML Screening and ongoing monitoring Go to product Biometric Verification 03 Biometric Authentication Go passwordless and secure accounts easily Go to product Age Estimation Increase conversions with a selfie-based age check Go to product Fraud Mitigation 04 Fraud Protect Protect your business from identity fraud Go to product Fraud Intelligence Elevate your fraud mitigation efforts with advanced intelligence Go to product Identity Verification 01 Identity and Document Verification Powerful document and identity verification for streamlined onboarding Go to product Proof of Address Approve more users and reduce friction with Proof of Address Go to product Database Verification Checks Comply with regulations using our comprehensive Database Verification Checks Go to product Age Validation Automate your age checks to safeguard all users Go to product Know Your Customer 02 KYC Onboarding Streamline your KYC Onboarding checks Go to product AML Screening Protect your business with AML Screening and ongoing monitoring Go to product Biometric Verification 03 Biometric Authentication Go passwordless and secure accounts easily Go to product Age Estimation Increase conversions with a selfie-based age check Go to product Fraud Mitigation 04 Fraud Protect Protect your business from identity fraud Go to product Fraud Intelligence Elevate your fraud mitigation efforts with advanced intelligence Go to product Identity Verification 01 Identity and Document Verification Powerful document and identity verification for streamlined onboarding Go to product Proof of Address Approve more users and reduce friction with Proof of Address Go to product Database Verification Checks Comply with regulations using our comprehensive Database Verification Checks Go to product Age Validation Automate your age checks to safeguard all users Go to product Know Your Customer 02 KYC Onboarding Streamline your KYC Onboarding checks Go to product AML Screening Protect your business with AML Screening and ongoing monitoring Go to product Biometric Verification 03 Biometric Authentication Go passwordless and secure accounts easily Go to product Age Estimation Increase conversions with a selfie-based age check Go to product Fraud Mitigation 04 Fraud Protect Protect your business from identity fraud Go to product Fraud Intelligence Elevate your fraud mitigation efforts with advanced intelligence Go to product Identity Verification 01 Identity and Document Verification Powerful document and identity verification for streamlined onboarding Go to product Proof of Address Approve more users and reduce friction with Proof of Address Go to product Database Verification Checks Comply with regulations using our comprehensive Database Verification Checks Go to product Age Validation Automate your age checks to safeguard all users Go to product Know Your Customer 02 KYC Onboarding Streamline your KYC Onboarding checks Go to product AML Screening Protect your business with AML Screening and ongoing monitoring Go to product Biometric Verification 03 Biometric Authentication Go passwordless and secure accounts easily Go to product Age Estimation Increase conversions with a selfie-based age check Go to product Fraud Mitigation 04 Fraud Protect Protect your business from identity fraud Go to product Fraud Intelligence Elevate your fraud mitigation efforts with advanced intelligence Go to product Identity Verification 01 Identity and Document Verification Powerful document and identity verification for streamlined onboarding Go to product Proof of Address Approve more users and reduce friction with Proof of Address Go to product Database Verification Checks Comply with regulations using our comprehensive Database Verification Checks Go to product Age Validation Automate your age checks to safeguard all users Go to product Know Your Customer 02 KYC Onboarding Streamline your KYC Onboarding checks Go to product AML Screening Protect your business with AML Screening and ongoing monitoring Go to product Biometric Verification 03 Biometric Authentication Go passwordless and secure accounts easily Go to product Age Estimation Increase conversions with a selfie-based age check Go to product Fraud Mitigation 04 Fraud Protect Protect your business from identity fraud Go to product Fraud Intelligence Elevate your fraud mitigation efforts with advanced intelligence Go to product Identity Verification 01 Identity and Document Verification Powerful document and identity verification for streamlined onboarding Go to product Proof of Address Approve more users and reduce friction with Proof of Address Go to product Database Verification Checks Comply with regulations using our comprehensive Database Verification Checks Go to product Age Validation Automate your age checks to safeguard all users Go to product Know Your Customer 02 KYC Onboarding Streamline your KYC Onboarding checks Go to product AML Screening Protect your business with AML Screening and ongoing monitoring Go to product Biometric Verification 03 Biometric Authentication Go passwordless and secure accounts easily Go to product Age Estimation Increase conversions with a selfie-based age check Go to product Fraud Mitigation 04 Fraud Protect Protect your business from identity fraud Go to product Fraud Intelligence Elevate your fraud mitigation efforts with advanced intelligence Go to product Product 1 / 4 Veriff Identity Fraud report 2025 is here! Explore the latest trends in identity fraud and its impact on businesses. Download the report and join the webinar. Get the report Join the webinar 6s Get instant verification 95% Verified on the first try 12K+ Documents covered 48 Languages supported Global businesses choose Veriff Create a solution that works for your specific business need and powers growth in the most cost-efficient and dynamic way possible. “Veriff integration was simple and stress-free. It didn’t take much time at all. In fact, it was one of the easiest workstreams on the whole website.” DAN RICHARDSON, CHIEF PRODUCT OFFICER, EASY.GO Read case study Read all stories "Reviews play a vital role when consumers use and buy services and products, especially online - which is why it’s crucial that people can trust what they see on our platform. This led us to introduce this option, which demonstrates that the review is from a real person, and as such provides another valuable trust signal to those looking at reviews." CAROLYN JAMESON, CHIEF TRUST OFFICER AT TRUSTPILOT Read case study Read all stories "Veriff is a key partner in our verification process. The working relationship is really good, we have constant contact and check-in meetings at least every two weeks. We often request new features, and Veriff is greatest at giving us what we need for identity verification." Read case study Read all stories "Our partnership with Veriff helps us to effectively manage ID Scan verification globally, and at a very large concurrent scale. It is incredibly important that we work with best-in-class technology partners to deliver these services to Kids Web Services." PAUL NUNN, CHIEF STRATEGY OFFICER & HEAD OF DEVELOPER RELATIONS Read case study Read all stories “Our fraud levels have dropped to below 1%, which is very impressive. This is thanks to the use of Veriff’s background video recording feature, which helps us understand more about what else might be going on during a customer verification.” JUAN ESTEBAN SALDARRIAGA, FOUNDER AND CEO Read case study Read all stories “Veriff enables us to ensure applicants are who they say they are, in very little time and at massive volume, so we can get financial assistance to the people who deserve it, rather than criminals.” ANDY WRIGHT, CHIEF TECHNOLOGY OFFICER, SUBMITTABLE Read case study Read all stories “Partnering with Veriff allows Starship to autonomously deliver age-restricted items in the UK and beyond as we continue to take on new markets and stores at a rapid pace.” RYAN TUOHY, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT OF BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND SALES Read case study Read all stories “Implementing Veriff’s IDV technology had an immediate and visible impact on our level of conversions and rates of fraud on our platform. At the same time, it enabled us to handle a constant growth in customers and scale sustainably.” DAN WESTGARTH, CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER, DEEL Read case study Read all stories "We needed a frictionless and fast user experience, while having zero tolerance for fraud and really high accuracy. Veriff was best able to meet those needs and we are a happy customer." ROMAIN MOISESCOT, SENIOR PRODUCT MANAGER AT BOLT Read case study Read all stories “Our top priority is to give our customers financial solutions in a trustworthy environment. We have implemented a multi-layer fraud prevention framework, where Veriff is a key element to avoid identity theft and protect people from fraudsters abuses. Since accuracy, great customer service and high technical experience are paramount to us, we decided to go with Veriff.” SAHARI CABELLO, HEAD OF KUESKI CASH & CREDIT RISK Read case study Read all stories 1 / 10 The global growth platform Open the door to users in more than 230 countries and territories Veriff is a global company and fighting fraud requires global expertise — so we've built the most extensive language and document database on the market to keep you ahead of the game, onboard genuine users wherever they are in the world, and keep bad actors out. Learn more Open new markets Veriff supports 48 unique languages and dialects enabling you to enter new markets. Unmatched accuracy 98% check automation rate powered by AI. User-focused 95% of genuine users get verified successfully on their first try. Streamlined onboarding Extract and verify data from documents, and pre-fill forms during onboarding. Quick and easy to switch, and get set up Migration Program Developer Docs Trust Center Get fully set up on our platform in 48 hours Our team of experts are ready to move you across from your current provider quickly and at no extra cost - meaning you get to realize the full potential and value from your IDV platform without delay. Talk to us Fast decisions A 98% check automation rate gets customers through in about 6 seconds. Simple experience Real-time end user feedback and fewer steps gets 95% of users through on the first try. More conversions Up to 30% more customer conversions with superior accuracy and user experience. Doc coverage An unmatched 12K+, and growing, government-issued IDs are covered. The customer trust platform The world's best rely on us to build trust Trust is at the heart of what we do. By verifying user identities more quickly and accurately than anyone else we reduce fraud and foster a secure and robust digital environment for you and your users. Talk to us Customer stories Get started Our identity verification experts are ready to help build you a solution that gets more honest customers onboarded faster, and more securely, than ever before Talk to us See plans Certificates Veriff is compliant with CCPA/CPRA, GDPR, SOC2 type II, ISO 27001, and WCAG Accessibility Guidelines. ISO/IEC 30107-3, Level 2 UKDIATF Level M1A UKDIATF Level M1B UKDIATF Level L1B CCPA/CPRA Compliant WCAG Version 2.0, Level AA GDPR Compliant SOC 2 Type II ISO 27001:2022 ISO 27017 ISO 27018 UK Cyber Essentials ISO/IEC 30107-3, Level 1 ISO/IEC 30107-3, Level 2 UKDIATF Level M1A UKDIATF Level M1B UKDIATF Level L1B CCPA/CPRA Compliant WCAG Version 2.0, Level AA GDPR Compliant SOC 2 Type II ISO 27001:2022 ISO 27017 ISO 27018 UK Cyber Essentials ISO/IEC 30107-3, Level 1 1 / 2 Learn more Fraud Education Center Discover key updates, actionable guides, and expert research on how to protect your business from the threat of fraud. Learn more Identity Fraud Report 2025 Explore the latest trends in identity fraud and its impact on businesses. Download the report . Learn more KYC Education Center All the insight you need to ensure your business is up to date with Know Your Customer (KYC) requirements and standards. Learn more Talk to us Get in touch with a Veriff expert to learn more about how effective identity and document verification helps to quickly convert more users and mitigate fraud and money laundering. Business email * First name * Last name * Company name * Job title * Country * Country of company Afghanistan Åland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Virgin Islands Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Caribbean Netherlands Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic Republic of the Congo Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic East Timor Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern and Antarctic Lands Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar (Burma) Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island North Korea Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Islands Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Réunion Romania Russia Rwanda Saint Barthélemy Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Korea South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu U.S. Virgin Islands Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vatican City Venezuela Vietnam Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Phone number * * Afghanistan (‫افغانستان‬‎) Albania (Shqipëri) Algeria (‫الجزائر‬‎) American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia (Հայաստան) Aruba Australia Austria (Österreich) Azerbaijan (Azərbaycan) Bahamas Bahrain (‫البحرين‬‎) Bangladesh (বাংলাদেশ) Barbados Belarus (Беларусь) Belgium (België) Belize Benin (Bénin) Bermuda Bhutan (འབྲུག) Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina (Босна и Херцеговина) Botswana Brazil (Brasil) British Indian Ocean Territory British Virgin Islands Brunei Bulgaria (България) Burkina Faso Burundi (Uburundi) Cambodia (កម្ពុជា) Cameroon (Cameroun) Canada Cape Verde (Kabu Verdi) Caribbean Netherlands Cayman Islands Central African Republic (République centrafricaine) Chad (Tchad) Chile China (中国) Colombia Comoros (‫جزر القمر‬‎) Congo (DRC) (Jamhuri ya Kidemokrasia ya Kongo) Congo (Republic) (Congo-Brazzaville) Cook Islands Costa Rica Côte d’Ivoire Croatia (Hrvatska) Cuba Curaçao Cyprus (Κύπρος) Czech Republic (Česká republika) Denmark (Danmark) Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic (República Dominicana) Ecuador Egypt (‫مصر‬‎) El Salvador Equatorial Guinea (Guinea Ecuatorial) Eritrea Estonia (Eesti) Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas) Faroe Islands (Føroyar) Fiji Finland (Suomi) France French Guiana (Guyane française) French Polynesia (Polynésie française) Gabon Gambia Georgia (საქართველო) Germany (Deutschland) Ghana (Gaana) Gibraltar Greece (Ελλάδα) Greenland (Kalaallit Nunaat) Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guinea (Guinée) Guinea-Bissau (Guiné Bissau) Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong (香港) Hungary (Magyarország) Iceland (Ísland) India (भारत) Indonesia Iran (‫ایران‬‎) Iraq (‫العراق‬‎) Ireland Israel (‫ישראל‬‎) Italy (Italia) Jamaica Japan (日本) Jordan (‫الأردن‬‎) Kazakhstan (Казахстан) Kenya Kiribati Kosovo Kuwait (‫الكويت‬‎) Kyrgyzstan (Кыргызстан) Laos (ລາວ) Latvia (Latvija) Lebanon (‫لبنان‬‎) Lesotho Liberia Libya (‫ليبيا‬‎) Liechtenstein Lithuania (Lietuva) Luxembourg Macau (澳門) Macedonia (FYROM) (Македонија) Madagascar (Madagasikara) Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania (‫موريتانيا‬‎) Mauritius (Moris) Mexico (México) Micronesia Moldova (Republica Moldova) Monaco Mongolia (Монгол) Montenegro (Crna Gora) Montserrat Morocco (‫المغرب‬‎) Mozambique (Moçambique) Myanmar (Burma) (မြန်မာ) Namibia (Namibië) Nauru Nepal (नेपाल) Netherlands (Nederland) New Caledonia (Nouvelle-Calédonie) New Zealand Nicaragua Niger (Nijar) Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island North Korea (조선 민주주의 인민 공화국) Northern Mariana Islands Norway (Norge) Oman (‫عُمان‬‎) Pakistan (‫پاکستان‬‎) Palau Palestine (‫فلسطين‬‎) Panama (Panamá) Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru (Perú) Philippines Poland (Polska) Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar (‫قطر‬‎) Réunion (La Réunion) Romania (România) Russia (Россия) Rwanda Saint Barthélemy (Saint-Barthélemy) Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin (Saint-Martin (partie française)) Saint Pierre and Miquelon (Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon) Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino São Tomé and Príncipe (São Tomé e Príncipe) Saudi Arabia (‫المملكة العربية السعودية‬‎) Senegal (Sénégal) Serbia (Србија) Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten Slovakia (Slovensko) Slovenia (Slovenija) Solomon Islands Somalia (Soomaaliya) South Africa South Korea (대한민국) South Sudan (‫جنوب السودان‬‎) Spain (España) Sri Lanka (ශ්‍රී ලංකාව) Sudan (‫السودان‬‎) Suriname Swaziland Sweden (Sverige) Switzerland (Schweiz) Syria (‫سوريا‬‎) Taiwan (台灣) Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand (ไทย) Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia (‫تونس‬‎) Turkey (Türkiye) Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu U.S. Virgin Islands Uganda Ukraine (Україна) United Arab Emirates (‫الإمارات العربية المتحدة‬‎) United Kingdom United States Uruguay Uzbekistan (Oʻzbekiston) Vanuatu Vatican City (Città del Vaticano) Venezuela Vietnam (Việt Nam) Wallis and Futuna Yemen (‫اليمن‬‎) Zambia Zimbabwe Industry * Please select Cryptocurrency Financial Services Gambling Hospitality Healthcare HR & Staffing Agencies Metaverse Online Marketplaces Dating Platforms Retail Public Sector & Utilities Social Platforms Mobility & Transportation Video Gaming Other What is your current monthly verification volume? * Please select < 500 500 - 1,000 1,000 - 5,000 5,000 - 10,000 10,000 - 50,000 50,000 + Google Ads Click ID Expiration Google Ads Click ID Google Client Id Google Session Id UTM Source Contact Details UTM Medium Contact Details UTM Campaign Contact Details UTM Ad Group Contact Details UTM Term Contact Details UTM Content Contact Details Salesforce Asset ID Salesforce Campaign ID Google referral Referral URL Website Form Form Type By submitting this form, you confirm that you have read and understand Veriff’s Privacy Notice . I agree that Veriff may use my email for marketing purposes, including to share updates about Veriff products & services, newsletters, invites to special events, free giveaways and other cool stuff. You can unsubscribe at any time using the link located at the bottom of Veriff emails. Products Identity and Document Verification Proof of Address Database Verification Checks Age Validation KYC Onboarding Biometric Authentication AML Screening Age Estimation Fraud Protect Fraud Intelligence Solutions By Industry Financial Services Mobility Crypto Gaming Education Healthcare HR Management By Use Case New account onboarding Age verification Driver validation Customer identity and access management Right to Work Right to Rent Resources Blog Case studies Help center Trust Center Documentation Service status Supported documents Supported languages About Our story Careers Press Switch language ​ English ​ ©2024 Veriff. All rights reserved Privacy notice Bug bounty Security and compliance Recruitment privacy notice Accessibility statement Your Privacy Choices We use cookies and similar technologies on this website, including those provided by third parties, to enable site functionality, analyze site usage, enhance user experience, perform analytics, and assist our advertising efforts. By using our Site you agree to our use of Cookies as described in our Privacy Notice . Close

---

All Your Identity Verification Combined Blend cutting-edge KYC, KYB and AML capabilities to meet even the most complex regulatory requirements in markets around the world. Talk to our experts Discover our platform Verify the World Capitalize on Industry-Leading Verification Match Rates Identity verification is as eclectic as the people you onboard. A strategy for one country or demographic can hamstring match rate proficiency elsewhere. Agility, market expertise and continuous data optimization are your greatest allies. Trulioo delivers them through a full suite of in-house verification capabilities. Drive Growth Expand Your Global Reach Embrace new markets with nimble identity and business verification. Open the door to more than 5 billion consumers in 195 countries. Different countries present different identification challenges. One platform unlocks your access to more than 450 data sources worldwide to turn your global ambition into reality. Expand to new markets Ensure Compliance Fortify Your KYC, KYB and AML Compliance Across the Globe Meet FinCEN, FINRA, FCA, FINTRAC, CySEC and other regulatory requirements with a full suite of in-house verification capabilities. Stay compliant by mixing and matching state-of-the-art verification tools and global and local data sources to achieve the highest onboarding assurance. Achieve compliance Integrate and Scale Simplify Verification Worldwide A single API unlocks a comprehensive verification platform. The Trulioo API delivers streamlined, scalable integration through a single token and endpoint, giving organizations access to a suite of verification services fine-tuned for regions across the globe. Explore the Trulioo identity platform Build Trust Minimize Risk, Maximize Confidence Ensure the right balance between identity verification and user experience to create trusted, sustainable relationships with your customers. Leverage risk mitigation, Fraud Intelligence, and trust and safety programs to stop bad actors before they can do damage. Find your risk balance 195 Countries Covered 5+ Billion Potential Customers 700M Verifiable Business Entities 450+ Global and Local Data Sources Identity Verification Knows No Border With more than 450 data sources and coverage of 14,000-plus document types from around the world, we help you navigate the unique verification challenges of any country. Browse document types available for verification. Supported Document Types Supported Document Types Our Experts Are Ready to Help You Grow Book a demo Sophisticated Solutions That Minimize Risk Person Match Trulioo accurately verifies digital identities around the world with industry-leading regional match rates, data and local results. Easily expand across borders and onboard more users. Learn more about Person Match Identity Document Verification Capture and authenticate more than 14,000 identity documents worldwide. Elevate the customer experience through real-time document verification with biometrics and image-capture SDKs that offer unlimited flexibility in the front-end design. Access the powerful anti-fraud capability through the Trulioo API or a hosted no-code platform. Learn more about Identity Document Verification Business Verification Build a 360-degree view of business customers, from confirming registration numbers to identifying ultimate beneficial ownership. The Business Verification suite of tools enables authentication of more than 700 million businesses worldwide. Learn more about Business Verification Global Watchlist Screening Screen customers against more than 6,000 global watchlists and 20,000 adverse media sources to achieve AML, sanction screening and KYC compliance. Reduce false positives and minimize manual reviews to meet customer expectations and protect your business. Learn more about global Watchlist Screening Person Fraud Shield your organization from synthetic identity and third-party fraud. Trulioo Person Fraud harnesses powerful risk intelligence from email, phone and network data to stop bad actors while ensuring a smooth experience for legitimate customers. Learn more about Person Fraud Any Industry, Anywhere Achieve compliance, reduce fraud and build customer trust across all industries around the world. Banking Keep pace and remain compliant with evolving KYC and AML regulations. Learn More Payment Service Providers Deliver comprehensive identity verification that protects your payments business and customers. Learn more Marketplaces Create a trusted ecosystem with verified vendors and customers to gain a competitive advantage. Learn more Online Trading Provide a fast, smooth customer experience while meeting extensive compliance obligations worldwide. Learn more Cryptocurrency Meet customer expectations for fast, secure onboarding in a rapidly changing industry. Learn more Foreign Exchange Achieve KYC compliance that transcends borders and helps you defend against fraud and identity theft. Learn more Wealth Management Onboard global clients securely while balancing verification and user expectations for speed and convenience. Learn more “ Operating in the competitive crypto and payments market, Metal Pay is a peer-to-peer payments platform that allows users to buy, sell, trade and send crypto using trading pairs or fiat money. Read Case Study Nium offers innovative solutions to send, spend and collect money in fast, convenient ways in multiple markets. Read Case Study PSI-Pay is a fast-growing, UK-based financial services company that provides payment solutions to individuals and businesses around the world. Read Case Study STACK is a financial technology company that provides members an alternative way to spend, save and share money. Read Case Study Operating in the competitive crypto and payments market, Metal Pay is a peer-to-peer payments platform that allows users to buy, sell, trade and send crypto using trading pairs or fiat money. Read Case Study Nium offers innovative solutions to send, spend and collect money in fast, convenient ways in multiple markets. Read Case Study PSI-Pay is a fast-growing, UK-based financial services company that provides payment solutions to individuals and businesses around the world. Read Case Study STACK is a financial technology company that provides members an alternative way to spend, save and share money. Read Case Study Insights to Grow Your Business Individual Verification (KYC) White Papers Strengthen Your Global Enterprise With Digital Identity Verification Strengthen Your Global Enterprise With Digital Identity Verification Read the White Paper: Learn to navigate the complex identity verification landscape and questions to ask when evaluating different solutions. Identity Platform White Papers Finding Value in the Complex Identity Verification Market Finding Value in the Complex Identity Verification Market Read the White Paper: Gain a clearer picture of identity verification options and how to weigh factors that effect the total cost of ownership. Trulioo Article   |   4 min The World’s Identity Platform The World’s Identity Platform Learn about the new Trulioo integrated, high-speed, global identity platform that helps your organization foster growth, innovation and trust. Upcoming Events Stay up to date with trade shows and industry events. See events Blog Gain important insights with industry updates, best practices and top trends. See blog Resource Library Find insights and information to help you verify across the globe. See resources You can trust us to keep you up to date Subscribe to our Newsletter Solutions Global Identity Platform Person Match Identity Document Verification Electronic Identification Business Verification Business Essentials Business Complete Watchlist Screening Fraud Intelligence Industries Banking Cryptocurrency Financial Services Forex Marketplaces Online Trading Payments Remittance Wealth Management Use Cases Customer Onboarding Business Onboarding Regulatory Compliance Trust & Safety Global Expansion Business Identity Theft Protection Digital Identity Verification Resources Blog Library Developer Portal KYC AML Compliance Company About Us Leadership Security and Compliance Careers News & Press Media Kit Events Partners Contact Us Copyright 2024, Trulioo. All rights reserved. Privacy Policies Cookie Policy Research Sitemap Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information SOC 2 Type II ISO 27001:2022

---

Identity Verification 6 Identity Verification Methods 12 September 2024 Team Sanction Scanner Blog / 6 Identity Verification Methods With over 33 billion records exposed by data breaches in the first half of 2023 alone, the urgency for reliable identity verification has reached an all-time high. Identity verification is crucial across various sectors, from banking and healthcare to government services and social media platforms . Fraudsters are becoming increasingly sophisticated, making traditional verification methods obsolete. Implementing strong ID verification techniques is crucial for businesses to protect themselves and their customers from fraud. What is Identity Verification? Identity Verification is the process of confirming that the identity an individual claims to possess matches their true identity. This is achieved by using various methods to authenticate the identity of an individual, such as checking government-issued documents, biometric scans, or analyzing behavioral patterns. The goal is to ensure that only authorized individuals gain access to services, systems, or information, thereby preventing fraud and enhancing security. Where Is It Necessary to Verify Identity? Identity verification is crucial in various contexts to ensure security and compliance: Financial Services Healthcare Government Services E-Commerce Employment What is Identity Verification Used For? Identity verification is used to ensure that an individual is who they claim to be, providing a critical layer of security across various sectors. Here are some key applications: Protects businesses and consumers from fraudulent activities by confirming the true identity of individuals. Banks and financial institutions use identity verification to comply with Know Your Customer (KYC) regulations, ensuring that customers are legitimate and preventing money laundering and identity theft . Verifies patient identities to ensure accurate medical records and prevent medical fraud. Ensures that only eligible individuals access benefits, services and secure government facilities. Protects against fraudulent transactions and account takeovers by verifying the identities of users during registration and login. Confirms traveler identities to enhance border security and streamline immigration processes. Confirms the identity of job applicants to ensure that they are who they claim to be and have the legal right to work. What are Identity Verification Methods? Identity verification has various methods and systems. This process may consist of different approaches. Know Your Customer (KYC) and Anti-Money Laundering (AML) rules drive identity verification techniques worldwide. However, each country has its regulations and organizations to impose these rules. For example, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) is one of the various agencies responsible for regulating identity verification methods in the United States . These techniques commonly fall into one of the following six methods; 6 Identity Verification Methods 1. Knowledge-Based Verification (KBV) 2. Biometric Authentication 3. Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) 4. Credit Bureau-Based Authentication 5. Database Methods 6. Online ID Verification #1 Knowledge-Based Verification (KBV) Knowledge-Based Verification (KBV) is a method of identity verification that relies on personal information only the individual should know. This method operates on the premise that specific details are exclusively known by the verified individual. This can include answers to security questions about past addresses, phone numbers, or other personal history details. KBV is widely used by financial institutions, government agencies, and online services as an additional layer of security. How Knowledge-Based Verification (KBV) Works Question Generation: The system generates questions based on the individual's personal and historical data, such as one's first pet, their favorite teacher, or other personal history. Answer Matching: The user provides answers that are matched against the correct responses stored in the system to verify their identity. Advantages of Knowledge-Based Verification Ease of Use: KBV is straightforward for users, as it typically involves answering familiar personal questions. No Special Equipment Required: Unlike biometric methods, KBV doesn't require additional hardware, making it accessible and cost-effective for many organizations. Limitations of Knowledge-Based Verification Susceptibility to Fraud: If a fraudster has access to the user's personal information through data breaches or social engineering , they can potentially answer the questions correctly, compromising security. User Memory: Users might forget answers to obscure questions or have difficulty recalling specific details, leading to access issues and frustration. KBV remains a valuable tool in the identity verification arsenal, particularly when used in conjunction with other methods to enhance security. Despite its advantages, the method's effectiveness can be undermined by social engineering and publicly available information, making it crucial to integrate KBV with additional verification techniques to ensure comprehensive protection. #2 Biometric Authentication Biometric authentication leverages unique physical or behavioral characteristics to verify an individual's identity. Unlike traditional methods that rely on knowledge or documents, biometric systems use biological traits to ensure that the person is who they claims to be. This approach offers a high level of security and convenience, as biometric traits are inherently difficult to replicate or share. Types of Biometric Authentication Fingerprint Scanning: This method analyzes the unique patterns of ridges and valleys on a person's fingertips. Fingerprint scanners are commonly used in smartphones and secure access systems due to their accuracy and ease of integration. Facial Recognition: Facial recognition technology maps the distinctive features of an individual's face, such as the distance between the eyes and the shape of the jawline. This method is widely used in smartphones, security systems, and even airport check-ins for its non-intrusive and quick verification process. Iris Scanning: Iris recognition involves analyzing the unique patterns in the colored part of the eye. Known for its high accuracy, iris scanning is used in high-security environments, including border control and secure facility access. Voice Recognition: This method analyzes vocal characteristics, such as pitch and tone, to authenticate identity. Voice recognition is often used in customer service and telecommunication industries for its convenience and ease of use. Advantages of Biometric Authentication High Security: Biometric traits are unique to each individual, making them difficult to forge or steal. Convenience: Users do not need to remember passwords or carry physical tokens, simplifying the authentication process. Non-Intrusive: Many biometric systems, such as facial recognition and voice authentication, are contactless, making them user-friendly and hygienic. Limitations of Biometric Authentication Privacy Concerns: The collection and storage of biometric data raise privacy issues and require stringent data protection measures. False Positives/Negatives: Biometric systems can sometimes produce false positives or false negatives , leading to potential security breaches or user access issues. Technical Limitations: Some biometric systems may have difficulty functioning in certain conditions, such as low lighting for facial recognition or dirty sensors for fingerprint scanners. Biometric authentication offers a sophisticated and secure method of verifying identities, enhancing both convenience and security. However, to address its limitations, it is often used in combination with other authentication methods to create a robust multi-factor authentication system. #3 Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) Two-factor authentication (2FA) or multi-factor authentication enhances security by requiring two distinct forms of verification before granting access. This method adds an extra layer of protection beyond the traditional username and password, making it more challenging for unauthorized individuals to gain access. The principle behind 2FA is to combine something the user knows (a password) with something the user has or is (a unique code or biometric data). How Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) Works First Factor – Knowledge: The user enters their username and password, which is the traditional method of authentication. Second Factor – Possession or Inherence: The system then prompts the user for a second factor, which could be one of the following: SMS Codes: A unique code is sent to the user's registered mobile phone via SMS. Authentication Apps: The user generates a time-sensitive code using an authentication app like Google Authenticator or Authy. Email Links: A verification link or code is sent to the user's registered email address. Hardware Tokens: A physical device generates a one-time code or connects directly to the system to authenticate the user. Biometric Data: An additional layer of verification using biometric traits, such as a fingerprint or facial recognition. Advantages of Two-Factor Authentication Enhanced Security: By requiring two forms of verification, 2FA significantly reduces the risk of unauthorized access, even if the password is compromised. Reduced Fraud: 2FA helps protect sensitive information and transactions from fraudsters , adding an extra barrier to prevent fraudulent activities . Flexibility: Various 2FA methods can be tailored to meet the needs of different systems and user preferences, from SMS codes to biometric authentication. Limitations of Two-Factor Authentication User Convenience: The additional step can be seen as inconvenient by users, potentially leading to resistance or decreased adoption. Potential Vulnerabilities: Certain 2FA methods, like SMS codes, can be susceptible to interception or phishing attacks. Additionally, hardware tokens can be lost or stolen. Implementation Complexity: Integrating 2FA into existing systems may require additional resources and technical support. Two-Factor Authentication is a powerful tool in the arsenal of identity verification methods, providing a higher level of security by requiring both something the user knows and something they have or are. While it enhances protection against unauthorized access, balancing security with user convenience and addressing potential vulnerabilities is key to its effective implementation. #4 Credit Bureau-Based Authentication Credit Bureau-Based Authentication is a method of identity verification that relies on credit report information provided by credit bureaus. This approach uses financial data and credit history to confirm an individual's identity, leveraging the comprehensive records maintained by credit reporting agencies. This method is commonly employed by financial institutions and other entities that require robust identity verification processes. How Credit Bureau-Based Authentication Works Data Collection: The system gathers information from credit bureaus, which includes details such as credit history, loan accounts, payment records, and other financial data. Identity Verification: The user provides personal information, such as their name, address, Social Security number, and date of birth. This information is then cross-referenced with the data held by the credit bureau. Validation: The credit bureau verifies the information against its records to confirm the user's identity, ensuring that the details match the financial data available. Advantages of Credit Bureau-Based Authentication Comprehensive Data: Credit bureaus maintain extensive records that include various aspects of an individual's financial history, providing a thorough basis for identity verification. Fraud Detection: By analyzing financial behavior and credit history, this method can help detect signs of fraud or identity theft . Efficiency: It leverages existing financial data to quickly verify identity, reducing the need for additional documentation. Limitations of Credit Bureau-Based Authentication Privacy Concerns: Accessing credit reports involves sensitive financial information, raising privacy issues and requiring stringent data protection measures. Dependence on Credit History: This method is reliant on the individual having a credit history. Those without a credit history or with limited credit information may face difficulties with verification. Potential for Errors: Inaccuracies or outdated information in credit reports can lead to incorrect verification results, potentially affecting user access. Credit Bureau-Based Authentication offers a reliable method for verifying identities by utilizing comprehensive financial data from credit bureaus. While it provides robust verification and fraud detection capabilities, addressing privacy concerns and ensuring accurate credit information are crucial for its effective application. #5 Database Methods Database methods for identity verification leverage extensive databases containing personal and public records to confirm an individual's identity. By cross-referencing user-provided information with data from authoritative sources, these methods offer a reliable way to verify identities across various sectors. This approach is commonly used in sectors such as banking, healthcare, and government services. How Database Methods Work Data Submission: The user provides personal information, such as name, address, date of birth, and identification numbers. Cross-Referencing: The system checks this information against multiple databases, including government records, utility databases, and other authoritative sources. Verification: The system matches the provided details with the data in the databases to confirm the user’s identity. Discrepancies or matches are flagged for further review. Advantages of Database Methods Broad Coverage: Access to various databases allows for comprehensive verification, utilizing a wide range of records to validate identity. Accuracy: By cross-referencing with multiple authoritative sources, database methods can provide a high level of accuracy in verifying identities. Speed: Automated database checks can quickly process and verify information, enhancing efficiency in identity verification processes. Limitations of Database Methods Data Privacy: Handling sensitive personal information from databases raises privacy concerns and requires strict compliance with data protection regulations. Dependence on Database Quality: The effectiveness of this method relies on the accuracy and currency of the data in the databases. Outdated or incorrect information can lead to verification errors. Access Restrictions: Not all databases may be accessible due to legal, technical, or privacy restrictions, potentially limiting the scope of verification. Database methods for identity verification provide a robust approach by utilizing extensive and diverse records to confirm an individual’s identity. While they offer accuracy and efficiency, addressing data privacy concerns and ensuring access to up-to-date and reliable databases are essential for their effective implementation. #6 Online ID Verification Online verification leverages digital tools and technologies to authenticate an individual's identity through online platforms. This method capitalizes on the convenience and speed of digital interactions, allowing users to verify their identity using online resources and services. Online verification is increasingly popular in various sectors, including e-commerce, banking, and social media . How Online Verification Works User Submission: The user provides personal information or documents via an online platform. This can include uploading identification documents, entering personal details, or completing a verification form. Digital Validation: The platform uses various technologies to verify the information. This may involve automated checks, document verification algorithms, or real-time data comparisons with authoritative sources. Confirmation: The system assesses the submitted information, cross-referencing it with databases or using biometric tools to confirm the identity. The user is then notified of the verification outcome. Advantages of Online Verification Convenience: Users can complete the verification process from anywhere with an internet connection, making it accessible and easy to use. Speed: Online verification processes can be completed quickly, often in real-time, providing immediate confirmation of identity. Scalability: Online verification systems can handle large volumes of requests simultaneously, making them suitable for businesses with extensive user bases. Limitations of Online Verification Security Risks: Online platforms can be vulnerable to cyberattacks, phishing scams , and other security threats that may compromise the verification process. Accuracy Concerns: The effectiveness of online verification depends on the quality of the technology used. Inaccurate document recognition or fraudulent submissions can lead to verification errors. Digital Divide: Not all users may have access to the necessary technology or internet connectivity, potentially excluding certain individuals from the verification process. Online verification offers a modern, efficient approach to confirming identities through digital means. While it provides significant advantages in terms of convenience and speed, ensuring robust security measures and addressing potential accessibility issues are key to its successful implementation. Identity Verification Software Identity verification software is crucial for secure and efficient identity checks in today’s digital environment. Utilizing automated identity verification technologies, this software ensures precise and reliable verification of individuals across various platforms. By integrating advanced features, identity verification solutions provide robust protection against fraud and unauthorized access. Key Aspects of Identity Verification Software Automated Identity Verification: This technology streamlines the verification process by automatically checking user information against authoritative databases, providing instant and accurate results. Comprehensive ID Verification Software: Combines multiple verification methods, including biometric analysis and database cross-referencing, to thoroughly validate identities and prevent fraud. Customer Identity Verification: Enhances the security of customer interactions by ensuring that their identities are accurately verified, fostering trust and compliance. Fraud Detection and Prevention: Analyzes patterns and data inconsistencies to identify and mitigate potential fraudulent activities, protecting your business and customers. Incorporating automated identity verification and advanced ID verification solutions helps organizations secure their operations, comply with regulations, and improve overall customer experience. Share Twitter Facebook Linkedin ABOUT THE AUTHOR Team Sanction Scanner Group of experts from Sanction Scanner Team

---

Blog General Customer Onboarding How Real-Time Photo ID Verification Works By Leor Melamedov ID verification allows financial institutions to compare a person’s claimed identity to public and private sources of information that can prove the ID holder’s legitimacy. In recent years, increasing numbers of sophisticated software have been developed to automatically and digitally authenticate identity. In particular, real-time photo ID verification is based on advanced technologies that allow financial institutions to maintain the highest standards of Know Your Customer (KYC) and Anti-Money Laundering (AML) regulations. Here, we will explore the topic of photo ID verification and how it works. What is ID verification, and why is it such a big issue today? ID verification is a process of authentication that compares a person’s purported identity to database information that either confirms or denies a match. Documents that are legally usable as KYC measures include social security cards, driver’s licenses, state IDs, and birth certificates. Unfortunately, identity theft is prevalent, making it necessary to take further measures that can confirm whether a person really is who they claim to be.

Government databases are frequently used for this purpose. So are secret password questions that are likely only correctly answerable by the identity holder. Technological solutions to the challenge of confirming identity have become more prevalent, like single sign-on (SSO) and similar protocols that are now ubiquitous.

Yet bad actors including fraudsters are devising more complex schemes involving more players than ever before. Gone are the days of classic identity theft; today schemes involving things like synthetic fraud and more sophisticated front companies are a struggle to keep up with. Moreover, KYC and AML regulations are more stringent than they used to be. They have been ever since 9/11 when concerns about financing international terrorism became a national priority, resulting in the Patriot Act section that requires banks to a) verify their customers’ identity and b) report any suspicious behavior.

The good news is that better technology is starting to make the process of ID verification easier than before. Real-time photo ID verification is a prime example of that. What is real-time photo ID verification? Real-time photo ID verification serves to allow banks and other financial institutions to verify a customer’s photo ID with the purest, most unchangeable source of a person’s identity: their face. It allows financial institutions to verify their customers’ photo ID securely and instantly, without requiring them to go to a physical branch or scan and email ID to an agent.

Here’s how it works: A bank or call center agent sends a text message with a link to the customer’s smartphone. The customer clicks on the link, which opens up to a secure mobile environment. The customer snaps a photo of their ID card, passport, or driver’s license. The customer takes a live selfie, which is instantly and automatically compared with the photo in their form of ID. The customer ID and selfie and matched and verified Benefits of real-time photo ID verification Financial institutions stand to gain a great deal by adopting a photo ID verification solution. Here are some of the main benefits: Designed for remote banking : Gone are the days when onboarding or servicing customers require them to go to a physical branch. Customers can easily get their ID verified and move on with their banking task regardless of their location; all they need is their smartphone at hand (which is an ever-present companion, anyway). Intuitive : It allows customers to get their ID verified by using a tool they’re already comfortable with: their phone’s selfie function. No cumbersome scanners required. Agent-guided : Bank agents can guide customers through the process of photo ID verification via a phone call, ensuring that the process is completed without error (although it’s intuitive for customers even without guidance!). More secure : Unlike manual ID verification processes, real-time ID verification uses Knowledge-Based Authentication (KBA) and One-Time Password (OTP) as additional layers of security for the session. Highest standard of fraud prevention : Digital ID verification solutions turn the KYC process into an exact science. The bottom line Financial institutions now have a new tool to add to their repertoire of KYC and AML measures: real-time photo ID verification. With this technology, compliance and efficiency are no longer mutually exclusive entities. In fact, compliance has never been so efficient, for both customers and agents. To learn more about real-time photo ID verification and related customer transaction capabilities, visit Lightico.com . Start Completing at  the Speed of Lightico Instant eSignatures, Payments, Document Collection & More Lead_Type_Hubspot Read This Next Breaking Free from Digital Paralysis in the Enterprise Picture this: Enterprises spend nearly $2 trillion annually on digital transformation, yet 70% of these… Read More Navigate CFPB Rulings, Compliance, and Vehicle Repossessions with IDP With the recent Supreme Court ruling in favor of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB),… Read More From OCR (Optical Character Recognition) to IDP (Intelligent Document Processing): The Evolution of Automation & AI in Financial Services Organizations, whether its banks, auto finance, or insurance, face an overwhelming influx of documents as… Read More

---

Mastercard identity Smarter identity insights Business growth and fraud prevention require a trusted identity, without increasing friction in the customer experience. Talk to our experts How it works Featured Understanding synthetic identity fraud: Challenges and solutions in the digital age at Mastercard Identity Connect London Read now → What do inefficient manual fraud reviews really cost you? Read now → What is synthetic identity fraud and how does synthetic identity theft work? Read now → Understanding synthetic identity fraud: Challenges and solutions in the digital age at Mastercard Identity Connect London Read now → What do inefficient manual fraud reviews really cost you? Read now → What is synthetic identity fraud and how does synthetic identity theft work? Read now → Understanding synthetic identity fraud: Challenges and solutions in the digital age at Mastercard Identity Connect London Read now → What do inefficient manual fraud reviews really cost you? Read now → What is synthetic identity fraud and how does synthetic identity theft work? Read now → Understanding synthetic identity fraud: Challenges and solutions in the digital age at Mastercard Identity Connect London Read now → What do inefficient manual fraud reviews really cost you? Read now → What is synthetic identity fraud and how does synthetic identity theft work? Read now → Understanding synthetic identity fraud: Challenges and solutions in the digital age at Mastercard Identity Connect London Read now → What do inefficient manual fraud reviews really cost you? Read now → What is synthetic identity fraud and how does synthetic identity theft work? Read now → Click for sound 1:42 A trusted identity is the foundation of today’s digital economy, preventing fraud and increasing revenue potential. Businesses in ecommerce and financial services use Mastercard Identity solutions to safeguard against fraud, scams and abuse, onboard legitimate customers and provide them seamless transaction experiences. key benefits We support global fraud prevention powered by machine learning insights Onboard new customers with confidence Ensure your customer is who they claim to be. Increase legitimate customer acquisition efforts, prevent fraudulent account creation and complement know your customer (KYC) requirements. Read use case → Optimize manual review queues Enable review agents to approve valid customers faster, reduce abandonment and increase overall productivity. Read use case → Increase approval rates Verify a higher volume of legitimate interactions to promote customer acquisition and retention, prevent fake accounts and deter the abuse of loyalty programs. Read use case → Combat transaction fraud Enhance fraud prevention and avoid lost revenue by strategically declining suspicious transactions while reducing friction for good customers during checkout, reducing the risk of chargebacks. Read use case → Our experts are ready to help you grow Contact us Solutions Approve good customers, authorize transactions faster and reduce fraud risk with our APIs and solutions. See all solutions Partners Access our expansive and dynamic data via the platforms and solutions you already use, with no development needed. See all partners Trusted by thousands of companies worldwide “Mastercard Identity was the missing cog in our fraud toolkit. By combining our internal data and tools, we have turbocharged our platform, making it a well-oiled machine. We have saved our major global airline clients tens of millions of dollars in costs they would otherwise incur without any solution like this in place, and our partnership is stronger than ever.” – CEO and Founder of Status Match, Mark Ross-Smith Our Tech The Identity Network Harnessing the capabilities of data science and machine learning, Mastercard Identity solutions combine behavioral, personal and device data with global fraud insights. These comprehensive data analytics enable businesses worldwide to assess an identity, understand who’s behind it and their probability of fraud — from the first customer touchpoint. See how it works → Ebook Facilitating trust, driving growth and providing great customer experiences Discover how mastering identity verification can transform your business in our study by Vanson Bourne, commissioned by Mastercard. Explore insights to understand how the power of proper identity technologies can prevent fraud, enhance customer experience and drive loyalty. Download eBook → report Enhance the customer experience while combatting fraud across the client lifecycle Download this report to explore the challenges posed by evolving consumer expectations and sophisticated fraud tactics, and discover practical solutions for counteracting them. Download report →

---

Identity And Access Management The Top 10 Identity Verification Software The Top Identity Verification Software that enables businesses to authenticate the identities of users, customers, or employees through methods like document verification, biometrics, and liveness checks. Last updated on Nov 12, 2024 Written by Caitlin Harris Technical review by Craig MacAlpine Share The Top 10 Identity Verification Software include: 1. ZignSec 2. ComplyCube Identity Assurance 3. DocuSign Identify 4. HyperVerge Identity Verification 5. ID.me Identity Verification 6. iDenfy Identity Verification 7. Jumio Identity Verification 8. Ondato Identity Verification (KYC) 9. Onfido Verification Suite 10. Persona Identity Verification Identity verification software enables organizations to verify or authenticate users’ identities remotely, by validating their personal information and documents. It can be used to verify employees’ identities, before granting them access to corporate systems and applications, or to verify customers’ identities before onboarding them or granting them access to a service or platform. Implementing an identity verification solution can help businesses prevent data breaches and fraud, streamline customer onboarding, and ensure compliance with regulatory requirements like Know Your Customer (KYC), Anti-Money Laundering (AML), and the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). It enables them to achieve this whilst building user trust and streamlining the end user verification experience. In order to achieve all this, identity verification software typically employs multiple verification methods to establish users’ identities, including ID document verification, biometric identification, and liveness detection. The strongest solutions also offer reporting of user login and verification activity as well as offering robust security features (such as encryption) to ensure the security and integrity of sensitive user data. In this article, we’ll explore the top identity verification software designed to help you onboard users, secure access to systems and services, and mitigate identity cyberattacks and fraud. We’ll highlight the key use cases and features of each solution, including supported verification methods, compliance support, additional security features, and end user experience. 1 ZignSec ZignSec is an identity verification service that provides user-friendly Know-Your-Customer (KYC), Know-Your-Business (KYB), and Anti-Money Laundering (AML) services. The technology is designed to simplify complex compliance tasks such as real-time verification of customer and business information, risk assessment, and flagging suspicious activities. ZignSec offers a range of features including document scanning with AI/ML for detection and analysis, registry checks that validate customer details against government records, and ID verification. The platform utilizes sophisticated technologies, including Electronic Identities (eIDs), to verify online identities without sacrificing user experience . These features support several industries including banks and financial services, gaming, insurance, and e-Commerce businesses, to prevent fraud and enforce compliance more effectively. ZignSec is a reliable identity verification partner with robust  documentation, product guides, and API services to help clients integrate their system. The platform supports multiple languages and can be translated if required. With its cloud-based setup, clients can gain a comprehensive overview of all transactions and get into the details of each customer. In our testing we found the platform to be fully-featured, with a user-friendly interface and granular admin options. ZignSec’s platform can serve as an efficient and cost-effective solution for KYC, KYB, and AML needs. It consolidates identity verification features in one place, with the ability to scale globally, ensuring businesses meet their regulatory requirements while reducing the need for multiple disparate solutions. Discover ZignSec Request Demo Contact Us 2 ComplyCube Identity Assurance ComplyCube Identity Assurance is a comprehensive identity verification suite designed for establishing the appropriate Level of Assurance (LoA) for various use cases. The suite offers a wide range of identity verification methods, delivering fast and accurate identity verification to bolster KYC controls and safeguard businesses. ComplyCube Identity Assurance delivers advanced document authenticity checks, utilizing AI and human experts to confirm the validity of a wide range of ID documents, such as passports, driving licenses, and visa stamps. The suite also offers proprietary face mapping, which enables secure and intuitive repeat access authentication across multiple devices. ComplyCube’s multi-bureau checks offer instantaneous and accurate verification of customer details against global data points, with the option for “2+2 verification” to ensure double-source verification. The platform also employs biometric verification to compare the individual presenting the identity document against the document itself. It also utilizes AI-powered liveness detection and anti-spoofing measures to block presentation attacks and enable frictionless authentication. Finally, for address verification, ComplyCube integrates POA verification services to extract, standardize, and verify customer details and geolocation data against multiple trusted bureaus. 3 DocuSign Identify DocuSign Identify is a collection of identity verification and authentication products designed to address the challenges of automating identity verification while ensuring security and ease of use. DocuSign’s solutions cater to various industries and use cases, leveraging different identity and eID methods based on regional requirements. These methods include Document ID and eID Verification, knowledge-based authentication, AES and QES compliance, and SMS authentication. This enables the platform to cater to a wide range of global users and ensure a secure and user-friendly experience. In the United States, users can verify their identity through personal questions, while the UK and France utilize bank-based IDs and eID, respectively. For European Union compliance, DocuSign offers ID Verification for EU Qualified—a solution that incorporates AI-enabled user identification into the eSignature workflow, expediting the approval process for Qualified Electronic Signatures (QES). The platform’s liveness detection in ID Verification allows for biometric checks, enhancing the security of the signing process by confirming the authenticity of IDs and matching facial features to ID photos. When it comes to verification policies, admins can customize their own configurations, specifying permitted ID methods, country of issuance, retention policies, and name-matching precision. Admins can also easily integrate verification statuses and ID data with other systems of record through APIs, and authentication information is included in eSignature Certificates of Completion. 4 HyperVerge Identity Verification HyperVerge offers an identity verification platform designed to confirm the identities of customers across more than 195 countries. This solution aims to reduce drop-off rates during customer onboarding processes. This is achieved through deploying single image passive liveness technology, which functions effectively even on low-end devices and in environments with low bandwidth. This allows for seamless customer onboarding experiences. HyperVerge Identity Verification is powered by proprietary AI models, which are engineered to work in real time and can be adapted to accommodate new requirements as they arise. These models verify liveness through selfies, without complex gestures or videos, helping to improve the overall end user experience. The technology has been extensively trained on diverse facial variations, resulting in highly accurate results that account for race, age, and gender. A standout feature of HyperVerge’s platform is the no-code workflow, which allows users to easily customize and build their own workflows to best suit their products. Workflow configuration and modification can be completed effortlessly, providing businesses with a flexible and user-friendly identity verification solution. 5 ID.me Identity Verification ID.me provides comprehensive identity verification solutions that are easy to deploy, meeting various business needs and risk tolerances. Their services offer three methods for identity verification: online, virtual in-person, and in-person. This flexible approach enables users to complete the identity proofing process using the most convenient method for them, making ID.me a suitable option for businesses seeking a comprehensive and adaptable solution. The online method uses remote verification of physical IDs, mobile network operator data, fraud, and compliance checks for quick and secure verifications. Virtual in-person verification involves completing identity proofing with a trained Trusted Referee via video conference, while in-person verification services are available through their partnership with Sterling, allowing individuals to verify their identity through kiosks located at retail locations. ID.me’s platform also includes mobile network operator SIM verification, document verification (using machine vision), facial recognition, and biometric matching. The solution aligns with NIST 800-63-3 standards, complying with federal and state-level requirements for IAL2/AAL2 identity proofing and authentication. It offers an interoperable login feature, where after initial verification, users will not need to re-verify their identity across any organization with ID.me integration. 6 iDenfy Identity Verification iDenfy is an identity verification company that offers a comprehensive solution for businesses, processing over 3,000 ID documents from more than 190 countries. Their platform uses advanced facial recognition and 3D liveness detection to authenticate users and prevent fraud, while ensuring a user-friendly experience. IDenfy’s identity verification technology combines the power of artificial intelligence with human supervision to provide a highly accurate success rate of 99.99%. iDenfy guarantees that client verifications are reviewed within three minutes, flagging any potential errors or fraud attempts. This meticulous system ensures efficient and accurate results, as well as providing customizable user interface options and dynamic ID verification steps. iDenfy offers secure data storage for up to ten years, with the ability to delete data within 60 seconds of its creation and automatic scalability to process an unlimited number of verifications quickly and reliably. Their solution is also compatible with over 2,000 applications, making it simple to integrate the service across various channels for stress-free identity verification. 7 Jumio Identity Verification Jumio Identity Verification employs AI, ML, and biometrics to automate the user verification process for businesses. It helps companies enhance conversion rates, comply with AML and KYC regulations, and prevent fraud, while providing a fast and efficient decision. Jumio Identity Verification automates user onboarding, reducing abandonment rates and streamlining the verification experience. The platform verifies IDs by checking photography presented by the user against known document templates and ensuring that the person in the selfie matches the person on the ID document. It also uses advanced ML to predict the age of the person in the selfie, comparing it to the date of birth on the ID. Jumio Identity Verification helps deter fraud by performing a liveness check, using advanced face-based biometric technology for added security. Additionally, Jumio offers a convenient course correction feature that enables users to retake a picture of their ID or selfie if the initial image is unreadable. Finally, the solution is highly secure, with data transmitted and stored using strong AES 256-bit encryption. It’s PCI-DSS Level 1 compliant, and designed to meet KYC, AML, CCPA, and GDPR compliance requirements. 8 Ondato Identity Verification (KYC) Ondato offers an identity verification solution for businesses, utilizing advanced AI-based tools for digital identity verification, supported by human review. Their platform is designed to streamline the onboarding process for customers and ensure regulatory compliance with KYC, GDPR, and AML guidelines. There are four supported ID verification methods within Ondato’s platform: automated identity verification using real-time document and photo checks; assisted identity verification through video calls supervised by KYC agents; manual identity verification, allowing customers to submit documents for later review; and NFC identity verification for a smooth, secure, and fast process. Ondato helps to streamline the onboarding process for customers by utilizing optical character recognition to eliminate manual form filling, and advanced technologies to compare biometric face data with the provided documentation. The system quickly checks customer data against a wide range of registries for accuracy and to detect any fraudulent activity and provides a comprehensive 360-degree view of customers while minimizing identity fraud risks by combining initial ID checks, IP address analysis, email usage patterns, sanctions, politically exposed persons, and adverse media screening. Although the platform relies on machine learning for detecting spoofing attempts and confirming matches, a KYC specialist always provides final confirmation to ensure accuracy. 9 Onfido Verification Suite Onfido’s Verification Suite offers a comprehensive set of tools for KYC processes, including document and biometric verification, data verification, and fraud detection. It caters to the compliance needs of businesses while ensuring secure and streamlined user experience. Onfido Verification Suite’s document verification feature, powered by Atlas AI, supports over 2,500 documents from 195 countries, providing rapid analysis and classification. Biometric verification offers two options—Selfie or Motion—to match photo IDs with facial biometrics, ensuring the rightful owner is presenting the identity document. The platform also offers fraud detection by leveraging phone and device intelligence to accurately identify trusted and fraudulent behavior during onboarding. The platform also offers a drag-and-drop workflow builder, Onfido Studio, that allows businesses to create custom verification journeys tailored to varying customer risk levels. In recent updates, the suite has also introduced Motion capture for biometric verification and passive fraud intelligence signals, continuously improving its capabilities to better serve businesses in maintaining security and compliance. 10 Persona Identity Verification Persona Identity Verification is a comprehensive solution that enables businesses to collect, verify, and orchestrate customer identities. This platform covers various identification methods, including government IDs, documents, selfie liveness, authoritative databases and issuing sources, phone and email verification, and mobile driver’s licenses. Persona Identity Verification enables verification via a wide range of government IDs, such as passports and driver’s licenses, in over 200 countries and territories. With automated ID classification and data extraction, it quickly detects fraud and expedites user verification, often within five seconds. It also provides a secure collection flow for documents, with checks to detect tampering and data extraction for better decision making. Persona’s selfie liveness feature ensures real-time user verification by comparing live selfies to uploaded ID portraits and previously collected selfies. Additionally, it offers access to multiple authoritative databases and issuing sources across 40+ countries in a single platform, streamlining user verification processes, and enabling customized matching logic. Finally, the platform supports phone and email verification through low-friction flows, allowing for rapid identity confirmation, fallback methods, and prevention of fraudulent access. It also supports mobile driver’s licenses, eliminating the need for physical wallets and facilitating validation against issuing DMV sources. Everything You Need To Know About Identity Verification Software (FAQs) What Is Identity Verification Software? Identity verification (also known as identity authentication) is the process of ensuring that someone is who they say they are, at the time they’re saying it. There are two main scenarios where a business might want to verify someone’s identity: They need to verify the identity of their employees before granting those employees access to company data to help prevent data breaches. They want to verify the identity of a customer before onboarding them or granting them access to a service or platform to help prevent fraud or money laundering and to prove compliance with Know Your Customer (KYC) and Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Identity verification software enables businesses to validate their customers’ or employees’ identities remotely, without those users having to travel to be verified on-site or send verification documents (such as a copy of a driver’s license or passport) in the post. This not only helps organizations to ensure the security of their data and their customers’ data and to achieve compliance with data privacy regulations, but it also helps them to speed up the verification process, freeing up security resource for other tasks. Finally, implementing digital identity verification software can also help organizations to improve their customer acquisition and retention rates: firstly, by streamlining the verification process and making it more user-friendly for the user being verified; and secondly, by showing customers that you take their data security seriously. How Does Identity Verification Software Work? Identity verification software collects personal information from the user, then compares the presented information with a trusted database containing the same information to ensure it’s real and legitimate. For example, it could ask the user to present a face scan, then compare that scan to a biometric record stored on the user’s phone, or to a government-held database of passport data. If the presented data matches the data in the trusted database, the user is granted access. There are various methods that can be used for identity verification, and each of those use a different type of information to verify the user. Let’s take a look at the most common methods. ID Document Verification ID document verification asks users to scan an official ID document such as a passport, driver’s license, or ID card, then checks that the presented document is legitimate. Because this method of verification often involves the use of government-issued documents, it’s considered very reliable. It’s also an accepted method for achieving KYC and AML compliance. This makes ID document verification well-suited to the financial industry, where organizations need to check users’ ID before allowing them to open a bank account, onboarding them, and during financial agreement processes. However, it isn’t the most user-friendly verification method as it requires the user to scan and upload their document. Biometric Verification Biometric verification asks the user to present biometric information, then compares that scan to a record in a trusted database. There are two main types of biometrics that the user could present: Physiological biometrics , i.e., a measurement of the user’s physical characteristics, such as a fingerprint or face scan Behavioral biometrics , i.e., a measurement of how the user acts, such as a typing or gait pattern or voice recognition Biometric verification is considered one of the most secure methods of identity verification , as it’s incredibly difficult for an attacker to steal or replicate someone’s biometric information. However, it can be more complex to set up biometric verification initially, and it’s critical that your organization stores users’ biometric data securely. Liveness Detection One way in which cybercriminals may try to evade biometric authenticators is by spoofing a user’s ID using a mask or photograph, to get around a facial recognition scan. Liveness detection is a method of identity verification that helps to prevent ID spoofing in this way. Liveness detection checks whether a person’s physical characteristics and measurements match those of an ID document that they’ve presented. However, liveness detection tools require the user to prove that they’re actually there, in real time, for example by asking them to film a series of head movements. Some more sophisticated methods exist too, such as thermal imaging and 3D recognition, but these require specialist hardware and aren’t generally suitable for everyday commercial applications. One-Time Passcode (OTP) Verification One-time passcodes are a common method of identity verification that many users will be familiar with. This method of verification transmits a single-use code to the user via SMS, email, or an authentication app during the verification process. They are then asked to input that code, proving that they have access to certain devices or accounts associated with their identity. While users are likely to be familiar with this method of verification, it does have some drawbacks. Firstly, it’s not very intuitive, as it requires the user to use multiple devices or applications to verify themselves. Secondly, it’s relatively easy for a cybercriminal to re-direct SMS or email OTPs to their own phone or email account. The best way to prevent this is by enforcing the use of authentication apps , which require the user to have physical access to a device to sign in. They also place a limit (usually 30-60 seconds) on how long a user has to input the code. Knowledge-Based Verification Knowledge-based verification requires the user to answer questions correctly in order to be granted access to an account. These might be questions chosen by the user when they created the account, or they might be questions based on information in the user’s account. For example, if someone wants to transfer a large amount of money, their bank may wish to verify their ID first by asking them questions about their recent transactions. Database Verification Database verification, also known as digital footprint verification, pulls data from other databases, such as social media, to verify information presented by the user. It’s a quick verification method and can often be done in real-time, and it doesn’t require the user to provide any extra information about themselves, making it user-friendly. However, it relies on the other databases being up-to-date and secure. Because of this, we don’t recommend using database verification as a standalone verification method. What Features Should You Look For In Identity Verification Solution? There are a few key features that you should look for when comparing identity verification solutions: Support for multiple verification methods. The most secure way to verify users’ identities is by layering multiple authentication methods. Additionally, choosing a solution that supports a few different methods enables you to give your users a choice as to which method they’d prefer to use, helping to streamline the verification process for them. Global document support. If your company is operating in multiple markets, is looking to scale internationally, or has employees or customers in different countries, you need to make sure that your chosen solution is able to verify a wide range of global ID documents, regardless of the country of origin. Guided user feedback. This is something that you might not think about at first, but it’s essential to ensuring your end users have a positive verification experience. Providing them with guided feedback (such as suggesting they move closer to their camera or adjust their angle) can help streamline the whole process, ensuring it goes quickly and smoothly. Data encryption. Your chosen identity verification provider needs to store and process sensitive data securely; all identity-related data should be encrypted at the point of capture, during transit, and in storage. Your chosen solution should offer built-in compliance checks and strong reporting templates to help you ensure and prove compliance with any relevant data protection and privacy regulations. You also need to check that your chosen provider’s data retention policies are aligned with your compliance requirements. Integration with your existing environment. You need to make sure that your chosen solution is compatible with your existing environment and offers integrations, usually ASPI-based, with the other technologies you’re using, such as payment gateways, data analytics tools, and CRMs. This will make initial deployment easier, as well as helping you keep better track of your data in the long-term. Caitlin Harris Deputy Head Of Content Caitlin Harris is Deputy Head of Content at Expert Insights. Caitlin is an experienced writer and journalist, with years of experience producing award-winning technical training materials and journalistic content. Caitlin holds a First Class BA in English Literature and German, and provides our content team with strategic editorial guidance as well as carrying out detailed research to create articles that are accurate, engaging and relevant. Caitlin co-hosts the Expert Insights Podcast , where she interviews world-leading B2B tech experts. Craig MacAlpine CEO and Founder Craig MacAlpine is CEO and founder of Expert Insights. Before founding Expert Insights in August 2018, Craig spent 10 years as CEO of EPA cloud, an email security provider acquired by Ziff Davies, formerly J2Global (NASQAQ: ZD) in 2013, which has now been rebranded as VIPRE Email Security. Craig has extensive experience in the email security industry, with 20+ years of experience helping organizations to stay secure with innovative information security and cyber security solutions.

---

0 App comparison Add up to 4 apps below to see how they compare. You can also use the "Compare" buttons while browsing. see comparison Sign in Join GetApp offers objective, independent research and verified user reviews. We may earn a referral fee when you visit a vendor through our links. Learn more Our commitment Independent research methodology Our researchers use a mix of verified reviews, independent research, and objective methodologies to bring you selection and ranking information you can trust. While we may earn a referral fee when you visit a provider through our links or speak to an advisor, this has no influence on our research or methodology. Learn more How GetApp verifies reviews GetApp carefully verified over 2 million reviews to bring you authentic software experiences from real users. Our human moderators verify that reviewers are real people and that reviews are authentic. They use leading tech to analyze text quality and to detect plagiarism and generative AI. Learn more How GetApp ensures transparency GetApp lists all providers across its website—not just those that pay us—so that users can make informed purchase decisions. GetApp is free for users. Software providers pay us for sponsored profiles to receive web traffic and sales opportunities. Sponsored profiles include a link-out icon that takes users to the provider’s website. Learn more Identity Verification Identity Verification Software Last updated: December 2024 All apps Filter results Features API ( 65 ) Third-Party Integrations ( 46 ) Access Controls/Permissions ( 25 ) Activity Dashboard ( 41 ) Activity Tracking ( 22 ) SEE FULL LIST Integrated with Microsoft 365 ( 1 ) 2Checkout ( 1 ) 4PS Construct ( 1 ) Accountability ( 1 ) Accounting Seed ( 1 ) SEE FULL LIST Pricing model Free ( 22 ) Open Source ( 0 ) Free Trial ( 56 ) One Time License ( 4 ) Subscription ( 50 ) Devices supported Mac ( 27 ) iPad ( 19 ) Android ( 24 ) Linux ( 30 ) Web-based ( 99 ) iPhone ( 23 ) Windows ( 35 ) Organization types Small Business ( 94 ) Non Profit ( 11 ) Large Enterprises ( 77 ) Public Administrations ( 29 ) Freelancers ( 29 ) Mid Size Business ( 82 ) User rating All Reviews & up ( 61 ) & up ( 61 ) & up ( 62 ) 101 software options Sort by Sponsored AU10TIX 5.0 (3) 5 3 4 0 3 0 2 0 1 0 Identity and document verification management software visit website Compare save AU10TIX helps businesses in financial services, telecommunication, marketplaces, and other verticals streamline identity authentication operations. The platform lets users automate customer data verification processes, ensure compliance with statutory regulation, and avoid fraudulent activities. Read more about AU10TIX Users also considered Trustfull 5.0 (2) 5 2 4 0 3 0 2 0 1 0 Fraud prevention with identity intelligence visit website Compare save Trustfull is a comprehensive digital risk intelligence platform that combines real-time signals from phone numbers, email addresses, IP addresses, devices, and browsers to help businesses reduce risks, stop fraud, and accelerate growth. The platform's powerful decision engine leverages advanced machine learning algorithms to detect and mitigate a wide range of fraud threats, including money mules, account takeovers, synthetic identities, and promo/bonus abuse. Read more about Trustfull Users also considered Twilio User Authentication & Identity 4.8 (52) 5 43 4 8 3 1 2 0 1 0 See all reviews Digital identity verification and intelligence tools visit website Compare save Twilio User Authentication & Identity offers digital identity verification and intelligence tools to build mutual trust between business and consumer. Read more about Twilio User Authentication & Identity Users also considered Persona 4.9 (11) 5 10 4 1 3 0 2 0 1 0 See all reviews Identity Verification Management visit website Compare save Persona helps businesses of all sizes easily and securely manage fully compliant KYC, AML, and identity verification programs. Read more about Persona Users also considered Fraud.net 4.8 (17) 5 14 4 3 3 0 2 0 1 0 See all reviews Artificial intelligence-enabled fraud prevention suite visit website Compare save The leading enterprise Fraud Detection solution for Banks, Payments, and Commerce companies.  Cut Risk. Lower Costs. Stay Compliant. Read more about Fraud.net Users also considered Sumsub 4.7 (68) 5 50 4 16 3 2 2 0 1 0 See all reviews Technical and legal solution for all KYC/AML requirements visit website Compare save Sumsub is an identity verification platform designed for KYC/AML needs. Read more about Sumsub Users also considered iDenfy 4.8 (9) 5 7 4 2 3 0 2 0 1 0 See all reviews Cloud-based ID verification tool visit website Compare save IDenfy is a cloud-based identity platform that offers secure and reliable identity verification services to businesses, individuals, and developers. It combines a full stack of onboarding, check-out, and authorization features to provide its clients with a robust end-to-end solution. Read more about iDenfy Users also considered Ondato 4.8 (13) 5 10 4 3 3 0 2 0 1 0 See all reviews Compliance management with photo & video verification visit website Compare save Ondato is a cloud-based compliance management solution for financial institutions, which provides tools for identity verification, customer onboarding, data validation, authentication & more. The suite of tools includes photo and video identity verification, facial biometric authentication & more. Read more about Ondato Users also considered FastPass IVM 4.8 (9) 5 7 4 2 3 0 2 0 1 0 See all reviews Identity Verification Solution for ITSM visit website Compare save FastPass IVM enhances IT help desk security by verifying user identities. It uses dynamic and static data for robust authentication, integrates with ServiceNow, and is cost-effective. Read more about FastPass IVM Users also considered Token of Trust 4.6 (11) 5 9 4 1 3 0 2 0 1 1 See all reviews Identity verification solution for safe online transactions visit website Compare save Token of Trust is a cloud-based anti-money laundering solution designed to help online merchants authenticate data and validate the identity of individuals. It collects information from multiple sources in a unified database, letting users associate behavior with real & identifiable people. Read more about Token of Trust Users also considered Submittable 4.7 (165) 5 124 4 35 3 5 2 1 1 0 See all reviews Launch, manage, and measure your social impact programs learn more Compare save Submittable powers you with tools to launch, manage, measure, and grow social impact programs. From grants management to corporate social responsibility programs, partner with us to start making a difference, fast. With a smarter, more efficient workflow, make better decisions and bigger impact. Read more about Submittable Users also considered SEON. Fraud Fighters 5.0 (56) 5 53 4 3 3 0 2 0 1 0 See all reviews Financial Fraud Detection Software for Businesses learn more Compare save A modern fraud prevention system with easy to integrate APIs, utilizing digital footprints to verify users & detect fraudsters. Read more about SEON. Fraud Fighters Users also considered Recognito 4.9 (24) 5 23 4 0 3 1 2 0 1 0 See all reviews NIST FRVT Top Face Biometric and ID Document Verification learn more Compare save RECOGNITO is a global leader and trusted provider of Face Biometrics and ID Document Verification solutions. • NIST FRVT Top Face Recognition in 1:1 and 1:N • Deepfake Detection, 2D/3D Passive Face Liveness Detection • ID, Passport Document OCR and MRZ, Barcode Analysis Read more about Recognito Users also considered Plaid 4.2 (52) 5 32 4 9 3 6 2 1 1 4 See all reviews Platform that enables apps to connect with bank accounts learn more Compare save Plaid is a technology platform which allows users to create connections between applications and bank accounts to authenticate accounts, check balances in real time, verify identities, validate income, pull transaction data, and verify borrower assets Read more about Plaid Users also considered NordPass Business 4.5 (32) 5 21 4 7 3 4 2 0 1 0 See all reviews Business password manager for advanced cybersecurity. learn more Compare save Elevate organizational security using NordPass Business — a secure and easy-to-use password manager packed with a variety of advanced security features such as ToTP authenticator, breach monitoring, multi-factor authentication, company-wide settings, single sign-on options, and more. Read more about NordPass Business Users also considered Onfido 4.6 (30) 5 21 4 7 3 1 2 0 1 1 See all reviews Digital identity made simple learn more Compare save Onfido's Real Identity Platform is an end-to-end, AI powered identity verification solution that helps businesses seamlessly onboard customers while stopping fraud, and navigating regulatory requirements. Read more about Onfido Users also considered Klippa DocHorizon 4.7 (23) 5 17 4 6 3 0 2 0 1 0 See all reviews Intelligent Document Processing solution for businesses learn more Compare save Klippa DocHorizon is a cloud-based Intelligent Document Processing solution that helps businesses extract data, convert, classify and verify documents to automate workflows. Are you ready for the future? Book a free online demo today! Powered by AI! Read more about Klippa DocHorizon Users also considered IPQS 4.9 (19) 5 17 4 2 3 0 2 0 1 0 See all reviews Fraud prevention solution for proactively detecting fraud learn more Compare save IPQS, an unparalleled fraud prevention solution powered by fresh data. Detect fraud in real-time, score mobile traffic, identify high-risk users, and block abusive behavior. Ensure lead quality with data verification. Choose IPQS for proactive fraud prevention and a frictionless user experience. Read more about IPQS Users also considered Workwolf 4.9 (16) 5 15 4 1 3 0 2 0 1 0 See all reviews Unleash The Power Of Truth learn more Compare save Workwolf® is your ultimate hiring partner, dedicated to helping you build high-performing teams that drive profits. Workwolf's innovative platform assesses the traits of your top employees, identifies the best candidates from the start, and verifies resume claims with the click of a button. Read more about Workwolf Users also considered IDfy 4.4 (28) 5 15 4 10 3 2 2 1 1 0 See all reviews Background check software learn more Compare save IDfy is an identity verification platform that allows businesses to integrate their identity verification services seamlessly into existing systems to automate and streamline verification processes. The platform enables managers to verify the identity of merchants and mitigate risks associated with fraud or illegal activities. Read more about IDfy Users also considered YouVerify 4.5 (22) 5 14 4 5 3 3 2 0 1 0 See all reviews Cloud-based financial fraud detection solution. learn more Compare save YouVerify is a cloud-based financial fraud detection solution that helps businesses in banking, finance, gaming, and other industries manage compliance and automate AML strategies. The platform provides various risk intelligence tools such as KYT, KYB, KYE, and KYC to help prevent fraudulent transactions and minimize risks. YouVerify also offers real-time transaction monitoring solutions and customizable workflows to streamline regulatory compliance. Read more about YouVerify Users also considered MemberCheck 4.8 (15) 5 12 4 3 3 0 2 0 1 0 See all reviews Risk Management Solution provider for AML/CTF compliance. learn more Compare save MemberCheck's Risk Management and reporting solution helps businesses conduct AML/CTF screening based on global standards. The solution specialises in PEP, Sanctions, Adverse Media and ID Verification. Read more about MemberCheck Users also considered NameScan 4.5 (22) 5 14 4 6 3 1 2 0 1 1 See all reviews Pay-As-You-Go Risk and Compliance Management Solution learn more Compare save NameScan assist firms in complying with AML/CTF and sanctions regulations and reducing reputational risk by providing KYC and KYB screening solutions. Read more about NameScan Users also considered KYC Portal 4.7 (16) 5 11 4 5 3 0 2 0 1 0 See all reviews Client lifecycle management solution learn more Compare save KYC PORTAL is a fully configurable Client Lifecycle Management solution that allows organizations of any size or type to collate all information relating to assessed entities and applicants rapidly. It provides a single, centralized, secure repository with fully customizable parameters, fields, rules, and user rights. Read more about KYC Portal Users also considered ID.me 4.2 (28) 5 21 4 2 3 0 2 0 1 5 See all reviews No Identity Left Behind learn more Compare save ID.me simplifies how individuals securely prove and share their identity online. Read more about ID.me Users also considered 1 2 3 4 5 page 1 of 5 Related categories Identity Management 278 apps Customer Identity and Access Management (CIAM) 78 apps Financial Fraud Detection 179 apps Compliance 1079 apps Risk Management 691 apps Authentication 186 apps KYC 59 apps AML 132 apps Background Check 86 apps Select your country United States (English) US office 56 Top Gallant Road Stamford, CT 06902 USA Registered office Calle Álava 121 08018 Barcelona, Spain For you Join Sign in Software categories Blog & research For vendors Get listed Your account Our company About us We're hiring! News Legal Privacy Policy © 2010-2024 GetApp. All Rights Reserved. GetApp is a registered trademark of Nubera eBusiness S.L. Nubera eBusiness uses its own and third-party cookies. By using the website you are accepting the use of these cookies. To get more information about our cookies click here .

---

