Top 10 KYC Software & Tools for 2024 – Rated and Reviewed Consent Details [#IABV2SETTINGS#] About This website uses cookies SEON and our partners use cookies to enable general website functions, remember your preferences, analyze interactions, and display relevant content and ads. By clicking [Allow all], you consent to these cookies and confirm that you've read and understood our Cookie Notice. Consent Selection Necessary Preferences Statistics Personalization and Marketing Show details Necessary 26 Necessary cookies make our website usable by enabling website functions. The website functions requested by you do not work without these cookies. Cookiebot 2 Learn more about this provider 1.gif Used to count the number of sessions to the website, necessary for optimizing CMP product delivery. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : Pixel Tracker CookieConsent Stores the user's cookie consent state for the current domain Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie Google 4 Learn more about this provider Some of the data collected by this provider is for the purposes of personalization and measuring advertising effectiveness. test_cookie Used to check if the user's browser supports cookies. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie _ga Registers a unique ID that is used to generate statistical data on how the visitor uses the website. Maximum Storage Duration : 2 years Type : HTTP Cookie _ga_# Used by Google Analytics to collect data on the number of times a user has visited the website as well as dates for the first and most recent visit. Maximum Storage Duration : 2 years Type : HTTP Cookie _gid Registers a unique ID that is used to generate statistical data on how the visitor uses the website. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie LinkedIn 1 Learn more about this provider li_gc Stores the user's cookie consent state for the current domain Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie cdn.seon.io 1 cookietest This cookie is used to determine if the visitor has accepted the cookie consent box. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie demo.arcade.software 1 sentry-offline#queue Detects and logs potential errors on third-party provided functions on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : IndexedDB g2.com g2crowd.com hsforms.com vimeo.com workable.com 7 __cf_bm [x7] This cookie is used to distinguish between humans and bots. This is beneficial for the website, in order to make valid reports on the use of their website. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie hsforms.com vimeo.com 3 _cfuvid [x3] This cookie is a part of the services provided by Cloudflare - Including load-balancing, deliverance of website content and serving DNS connection for website operators. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie seon.io 3 __mp_opt_in_out_# Stores the user's cookie consent state for the current domain Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie debug This cookie is used to detect errors on the website - this information is sent to the website's support staff in order to optimize the visitor's experience on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage wpEmojiSettingsSupports This cookie is part of a bundle of cookies which serve the purpose of content delivery and presentation. The cookies keep the correct state of font, blog/picture sliders, color themes and other website settings. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage www.g2.com 3 datadome Used in context with the website's BotManager. The BotManager detects, categorizes and compiles reports on potential bots trying to access the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie AWSALB Registers which server-cluster is serving the visitor. This is used in context with load balancing, in order to optimize user experience. Maximum Storage Duration : 7 days Type : HTTP Cookie AWSALBCORS Registers which server-cluster is serving the visitor. This is used in context with load balancing, in order to optimize user experience. Maximum Storage Duration : 7 days Type : HTTP Cookie x.clearbitjs.com 1 pfjs%3Acookies Used to check if the user's browser supports cookies. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie Preferences 2 Preferences cookies enable our website to remember information that changes the way the website behaves or looks, like your preferred language or the region that you are in. Acast 1 Learn more about this provider AcastLang This cookie is used to determine the preferred language of the visitor and sets the language accordingly on the website, if possible. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage Hubspot 1 Learn more about this provider messagesUtk Stores a unique ID string for each chat-box session. This allows the website-support to see previous issues and reconnect with the previous supporter. Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie Statistics 17 Statistics cookies help us to understand how you interact with and use our website by collecting and reporting statistical or analytics information. G2Crowd 1 Learn more about this provider g2tracking Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage Google 1 Learn more about this provider Some of the data collected by this provider is for the purposes of personalization and measuring advertising effectiveness. _gat Used by Google Analytics to throttle request rate Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie Hotjar 4 Learn more about this provider hjActiveViewportIds This cookie contains an ID string on the current session. This contains non-personal information on what subpages the visitor enters – this information is used to optimize the visitor's experience. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage hjViewportId Saves the user's screen size in order to adjust the size of images on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage _hjSession_# Collects statistics on the visitor's visits to the website, such as the number of visits, average time spent on the website and what pages have been read. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie _hjSessionUser_# Collects statistics on the visitor's visits to the website, such as the number of visits, average time spent on the website and what pages have been read. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie Hubspot 4 Learn more about this provider __hssc Identifies if the cookie data needs to be updated in the visitor's browser. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie __hssrc Used to recognise the visitor's browser upon reentry on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie __hstc Sets a unique ID for the session. This allows the website to obtain data on visitor behaviour for statistical purposes. Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie hubspotutk Sets a unique ID for the session. This allows the website to obtain data on visitor behaviour for statistical purposes. Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie Workable 1 Learn more about this provider wmc Used to track which users have shown interest in what job postings. The cookie ensures that the most relevant job postings are shown to the specific user. Maximum Storage Duration : 400 days Type : HTTP Cookie demo.arcade.software 2 ajs_anonymous_id This cookie is used to count how many times a website has been visited by different visitors - this is done by assigning the visitor an ID, so the visitor does not get registered twice. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage ajs_anonymous_id This cookie is used to identify a specific visitor - this information is used to identify the number of specific visitors on a website. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie g2.com 1 _g2_session_id Sets a unique ID for the session. This allows the website to obtain data on visitor behaviour for statistical purposes. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie seon.io 1 signup-statistics-data Pending Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage www.g2.com 1 events_distinct_id Sets a unique ID for the session. This allows the website to obtain data on visitor behaviour for statistical purposes. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie x.clearbitjs.com 1 cb%3Atest Collects data on the user's visits to the website, such as the number of visits, average time spent on the website and what pages have been loaded with the purpose of generating reports for optimising the website content. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie Personalization and Marketing 44 Personalization and Marketing cookies are used to track you on our website or across websites and devices, and to display you content and ads that are relevant and engaging for you on our websites or third-party websites, including on social media. Google 4 Learn more about this provider Some of the data collected by this provider is for the purposes of personalization and measuring advertising effectiveness. IDE Used by Google DoubleClick to register and report the website user's actions after viewing or clicking one of the advertiser's ads with the purpose of measuring the efficacy of an ad and to present targeted ads to the user. Maximum Storage Duration : 400 days Type : HTTP Cookie NID Registers a unique ID that identifies a returning user's device. The ID is used for targeted ads. Maximum Storage Duration : 6 months Type : HTTP Cookie pagead/1p-user-list/# Tracks if the user has shown interest in specific products or events across multiple websites and detects how the user navigates between sites. This is used for measurement of advertisement efforts and facilitates payment of referral-fees between websites. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : Pixel Tracker _gcl_au Used by Google AdSense for experimenting with advertisement efficiency across websites using their services. Maximum Storage Duration : 3 months Type : HTTP Cookie Hubspot 1 Learn more about this provider __ptq.gif Sends data to the marketing platform Hubspot about the visitor's device and behaviour. Tracks the visitor across devices and marketing channels. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : Pixel Tracker LinkedIn 2 Learn more about this provider bcookie Used by the social networking service, LinkedIn, for tracking the use of embedded services. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie lidc Used by the social networking service, LinkedIn, for tracking the use of embedded services. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie Twitter Inc. 2 Learn more about this provider i/jot/embeds Sets a unique ID for the visitor, that allows third party advertisers to target the visitor with relevant advertisement. This pairing service is provided by third party advertisement hubs, which facilitates real-time bidding for advertisers. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : Pixel Tracker RichHistory Collects data on visitors' preferences and behaviour on the website - This information is used make content and advertisement more relevant to the specific visitor. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage YouTube 23 Learn more about this provider #-# Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage __Secure-ROLLOUT_TOKEN Pending Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie iU5q-!O9@$ Registers a unique ID to keep statistics of what videos from YouTube the user has seen. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage LAST_RESULT_ENTRY_KEY Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie LogsDatabaseV2:V#||LogsRequestsStore Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : IndexedDB nextId Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie remote_sid Necessary for the implementation and functionality of YouTube video-content on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie requests Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie ServiceWorkerLogsDatabase#SWHealthLog Necessary for the implementation and functionality of YouTube video-content on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : IndexedDB TESTCOOKIESENABLED Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie VISITOR_INFO1_LIVE Tries to estimate the users' bandwidth on pages with integrated YouTube videos. Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie YSC Registers a unique ID to keep statistics of what videos from YouTube the user has seen. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie yt.innertube::nextId Registers a unique ID to keep statistics of what videos from YouTube the user has seen. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage ytidb::LAST_RESULT_ENTRY_KEY Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage YtIdbMeta#databases Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : IndexedDB yt-player-user-settings Pending Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-cast-available Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-cast-installed Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-connected-devices Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-device-id Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-fast-check-period Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-session-app Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-session-name Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage demo.arcade.software 2 ajs_user_id This cookie is used to collect data on the visitor's behavior on the website - this information can be used to assign the visitor to a visitor segment, based on common preferences. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie ajs_user_id Collects data on visitors' preferences and behaviour on the website - This information is used make content and advertisement more relevant to the specific visitor. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage demo.arcade.software x.clearbitjs.com 3 __tld__ [x3] Used to track visitors on multiple websites, in order to present relevant advertisement based on the visitor's preferences. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie seon.io 2 __mpq_#_# Collects data on user behaviour and interaction in order to optimize the website and make advertisement on the website more relevant. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage mp_#_mixpanel Pending Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie tag.clearbitscripts.com 2 cb_group_properties Collects data on visitor behaviour from multiple websites, in order to present more relevant advertisement - This also allows the website to limit the number of times that they are shown the same advertisement. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage cb_user_traits Collects data on visitor behaviour from multiple websites, in order to present more relevant advertisement - This also allows the website to limit the number of times that they are shown the same advertisement. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage x.clearbitjs.com 3 cb_anonymous_id Collects data on visitor behaviour from multiple websites, in order to present more relevant advertisement - This also allows the website to limit the number of times that they are shown the same advertisement. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie cb_group_id Collects data on visitors. This information is used to assign visitors into segments, making website advertisement more efficient. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie cb_user_id Collects data on visitor behaviour from multiple websites, in order to present more relevant advertisement - This also allows the website to limit the number of times that they are shown the same advertisement. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie Functional 3 Functional cookies are used to ensure the proper functioning of our website. cdn.seon.io 3 inersc2a2k Pending Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage f3k2kqs7xc Pending Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie ytkufm9oaz#ytkufm9oaz Pending Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : IndexedDB Cross-domain consent [#BULK_CONSENT_DOMAINS_COUNT#] [#BULK_CONSENT_TITLE#] List of domains your consent applies to: [#BULK_CONSENT_DOMAINS#] Cookie declaration last updated on 12/4/24 by Cookiebot [#IABV2_TITLE#] [#IABV2_BODY_INTRO#] [#IABV2_BODY_LEGITIMATE_INTEREST_INTRO#] [#IABV2_BODY_PREFERENCE_INTRO#] [#IABV2_LABEL_PURPOSES#] [#IABV2_BODY_PURPOSES_INTRO#] [#IABV2_BODY_PURPOSES#] [#IABV2_LABEL_FEATURES#] [#IABV2_BODY_FEATURES_INTRO#] [#IABV2_BODY_FEATURES#] [#IABV2_LABEL_PARTNERS#] [#IABV2_BODY_PARTNERS_INTRO#] [#IABV2_BODY_PARTNERS#] Scope . This cookie notice (“Cookie Notice”) provides you with information on how SEON Technologies Kft. (“SEON” or “we”) and our social media advertising, analytics, etc. partners use cookies on seon.io and docs.seon.io. Cookies . Cookies are small text files that are sent to your device by the browser upon request of the websites. When this notice mentions cookies it should be understood to include similar technologies (e.g. pixel tags, web beacons, local storage, etc.). The cookies that we provide or set on your device while you are visiting our websites are called first party cookies. The cookies that our partners provide or set on your device are third party cookies. Each cookie lasts for a different period of time. Session cookies will last only while your browser is open. When you close the browser, this cookie will be deleted automatically. Persistent cookies will survive even after closing the browser. For example, we will recognize your device via these cookies when you open the browser again. Further information about cookies. Learn more about the purposes of cookies, the duration of the operation of cookies, our social media, advertising, analytics, etc. partners that use cookies on our websites under “Details”. Data collected about you. We and our partners process the cookie ID and related data such as information about your device, the functioning of our website, your preferences etc. Please note that normally we are not able to identify you based on these data, therefore they are normally not considered personal data. If, on the basis of specific circumstances, we are able to identify you based on these data, we inform you that we process your personal data in accordance with our Privacy Notice. Recipients . SEON shares the cookie ID and related data with the following recipients: cloud providers, customer relationship management (CRM) providers, integration tool providers, instant messaging providers, video conferencing tool providers, UI/UX tool providers, social media providers, online advertising platforms and agencies, marketing and analytics tools providers. For further information about our data sharing practices please see our Privacy Notice. Your choices. We use “Functionality and Preferences”, “Personalization and Marketing” and “Statistics” cookies on the basis of you consent. You can at any time, provide, change or withdraw your consent from these cookies under “Details”. Please note that our use of “Necessary” cookies is not subject to your consent, we use them by default, as without these cookies, our website functions requested by you do not work. Device fingerprinting. We use device fingerprinting technology for ensuring information security of our services and for preventing frauds. For further information please see our Privacy Notice. Further information about our privacy practices. Our Privacy Notice complements this Cookie Notice. Learn more about who we are, how you can contact us or our data protection officer, how we process personal data, what  are your rights regarding your personal data, and what are our data protection and privacy practices in our Privacy Notice. Do not sell or share my personal information Reject Allow selection Customize Allow all Menu Close Products Fraud Digital Footprint Understand your customers’ online presence using email, phone and IP data Device Intelligence Analyze and track device and behavioral biometric data patterns AI & Machine Learning Deploy transparent rules to prevent evolving fraud patterns in real time AML Compliance Customer Screening & Monitoring Simplify compliance with an integrated AML and fraud platform Case Management Eliminate manual processes and fragmented tools to achieve faster, more efficient investigations Integrations Shopify Seamlessly integrate fraud prevention into your Shopify store AWS Integrate Fraud Prevention Seamlessly with SEON’s AWS Partnership Solutions Industries Financial Services Safeguard your customers from fraud at every step, from onboarding to transaction monitoring Fintech Scale and onboard new customers with confidence Payments Block fraudulent transactions in real time iGaming Eliminate iGaming threats without sacrificing player experience Retail Reduce chargebacks & stop e-commerce fraud Use Cases Bonus Abuse Block bonus abuse before it begins Fake & Synthetic IDs Detect suspicious users upfront Account Takeover Block unauthorized access before it impacts your customers AI Automation Detect fraud patterns that human eyes can’t Registration & Onboarding Onboard the right customers quickly and without friction Login & Activity Monitoring Keep customers and your business safe Transaction Monitoring Stay compliant and protect honest customers with real-time monitoring Case Studies Resources Fraud & Risk Managers Articles Stay informed on the latest fraud and risk prevention insights Guides Access practical guides to strengthen fraud and risk detection Case Studies Discover success stories from the world’s most innovative companies Comparisons Compare fraud and risk software solutions Events Meet up with our experts at an industry conference Webinars Learn from industry leaders to gain practical insights Dictionary Understand essential fraud and risk industry terms All Resources Explore the full resource library Developers Integration Guide Easily integrate by following a detailed step-by-step guide API Documentation Integrate quickly using one API Technical Knowledge Base Learn more about SEON and how to optimize your setup Github Access our open-source fraud prevention tools Company Company About Us Learn about our mission and team Contact Us Get in touch with our experts Careers Join our team News Latest updates in fraud prevention Mediaroom Read the latest SEON news and media stories Partners Partners Become a SEON partner Pricing Speak with an expert Login Comparison Top 10 KYC Software & Tools Solutions 2024 What Is KYC Software? KYC software assists companies in meeting Know Your Customer (KYC) legal requirements. These requirements are clearly defined for certain industries, such as banking and financial products. These companies must rely on KYC software to learn more about their users. This is to prevent fraud and criminal activity, including money laundering and assisting terrorism, among others. KYC software will help you learn a user’s first and last name, as well as an address and an ID document. Top Features of KYC Software Before choosing KYC software, you should consider the following features: Frictionless data enrichment: This will let you know more about users without asking for official documents. The software analyzes digital footprints to give you an idea of who you are dealing with. Document verification : The software determines if the ID is valid, fake, or stolen. Different software has different data sources and methods for checking that information. Pay-as-you-go pricing: Ideally, you want your KYC software prices to scale along with your usage. There’s no point in spending thousands of dollars a month if you have a very low volume of applications. Anti-money laundering (AML) features: KYC software is often bundled with AML features. This may include looking at lists of Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs) or monitoring transactions over a certain threshold. The 10 Best KYC Software Solutions SEON Use Pre-KYC Checks to Save Money When it comes to digital footprint analysis, SEON is an incredibly helpful tool to help you glean your customers’ true intentions. SEON does not provide full KYC functionality – but it can save companies a lot of time and money spent on KYC by weeding out fraudulent users before they reach that crucial step. As a result, you will not need to spend money running KYC checks on demonstrably bad actors who would be rejected anyway. In addition to helping save resources, this boosts an organization’s fraud prevention efforts. Pros Check social signals Fast and frictionless Transparent pricing Also suitable for AML Cons No document check or biometric authentication No on-premise deployment SEON Pricing Starts at $599. Free version available with limited API calls. Choose SEON If You are concerned about your KYC costs and want to streamline the process. SEON’s tools give you insightful data points thanks to: Reverse phone lookup : Find all the red flags by checking whether the phone number exists, if it’s in the right country, and more. Reverse email analysis : Flag email addresses that don’t exist and spot suspicious free domains. Device fingerprinting: Learn which configuration of software and hardware the user relies on to connect to your site. Reverse digital profiling lookup: Check 90+ platforms and online networks for user data. All this data is fed through a powerful risk-scoring engine, which outputs a fraud score with clear explanations. This allows you to filter out junk users before the KYC stage, ask for additional information with medium-risk customers, and get more information for a manual review. SEON Pros Check social signals: SEON aggregates data from 90+ online platforms, including social networks, for user information – far more than any other KYC software tool. Fast and frictionless: Get results in split seconds via API. Transparent pricing: True software-as-a-service (SaaS) model with a free 14-day trial and cancel anytime contracts. Transparent pricing: Fully-featured free plan. Also suitable for AML: If you struggle with unifying your fraud management and compliance system, SEON has got you covered. SEON Cons No document check or biometric authentication: SEON is a pre-KYC filter or tool for extra info during a manual review. It is not a KYC solution, strictly speaking. No on-premise deployment: If you can’t use cloud-based KYC tools, SEON isn’t ideal. Read more Save Money on Your KYC Checks Leverage SEON to speed up KYC checks, save money on KYC, and flag suspicious users with behavioral analytics and a real time scoring engine. Speak with an Expert Onfido Leverage AI Liveness Verification What do companies such as Revolut, Remitly, and Bitstamp have in common? They all verify identities with Onfido. The company leverages its AI models to verify 2,500 kinds of ID documents in 195 countries. With Onfido, you’ll get liveness verification, biometrics analysis, and, of course, an AI system that will automatically accept or reject applications – with the added bonus of manual review for cases that fall within a grey area. Last but not least, Onfido is suitable for both KYC and AML checks thanks to its PEP screening and transaction monitoring features. Pros 2,500 document types KYC, AML, and anti-fraud Cons False positives More friction Onfido Pricing Available after a sales demo. Choose Onfido If You want to go above and beyond with the accuracy of your KYC and don’t mind friction. Onfido Pros 2,500 document types: Ondifo can verify ID documents from most countries. KYC, AML, and anti-fraud: You can perform all your compliance checks in one go, thanks to Onfido’s KYC and AML verifications. Onfido Cons False positives: As with most automated, AI-driven KYC checks, you’ll get the odd error – which can be frustrating for legitimate customers. More friction: While the liveness verification is effective, the risk of false positives and poor quality can add friction to the user experience. Read more Trulioo Enjoy Global Document Verification Trulioo (pronounced truly-you ) offers ID document verification by scanning its huge list of five billion identities in 195 countries. The company provides access to 11,800 types of documents, from driving licenses to residency permits. It’s ideal to meet KYC requirements and to check AML watchlists. All of Trulioo’s products, which also include business verification, are available via API integration. You can try the solution for free, then move up to the Growth plan (for KYC and AML checks only). The Enterprise plan includes business verification too. Pros Huge database Business verification Cons No data enrichment or risk scoring Trulioo Pricing No pricing is available online, but you have three options: a free trial, the Growth plan, or Enterprise (which includes business verification). Choose Trulioo If You have customers all around the world, and you need to verify their identity. Trulioo Pros Huge database: Probably one of the largest databases of IDs for KYC. Business verification: If you need to verify the identities of ultimate beneficial owners, Trulioo is suitable. That means Know Your Customer and Know Your Business (KYB) checks can be made from the same software. Trulioo Cons No data enrichment or risk scoring: Trulioo won’t be great for manual reviews or managing risk in other areas besides KYC. Read more Refinitiv Insights from Financial Data Analysts Refinitiv is an award-winning data analytics company specializing in keeping a large financial data catalog, which it can leverage for KYC and AML. When you integrate this solution, you get to choose the KYC model you need, including access to suggestions from hundreds of analysts worldwide who rely on 600+ sanctions and law enforcement watchlists. This makes Refinitiv a complete solution for both KYC and AML, with a specific focus on investment banking and asset management. Pros AML and KYC tools Human-vetted data Cons Pricing Refinitiv Pricing You have to contact the sales team for a quote. Choose Refinitiv If In addition to KYC and AML checks, you want to use its vast financial databases. Refinitiv Pros AML and KYC tools: Companies in finance and banking need their customers to pass both KYC and AML checks. You can do both with Refinitiv. Human-vetted data: One of Refinitiv’s strong suits is its data, aggregated from data analysts who pore over the latest watchlists for AML. Refinitiv Cons Pricing: A focus on top-tier financial institutions means you’re likely to get a higher quote. Read more KYC-Chain Employ Blockchain Tech for KYC KYC-Chain lets you verify identities, run Know Your Customer and AML checks and, perhaps more innovatively, leverage blockchain KYC. The latter is offered via its sister company, SelfKey, which allows users to store their KYC details on-chain. The company prides itself on its bank-grade compliance toolkit, which can scan more than 10,000 data sources in 240 counties with a response time of 30 seconds. At the time of writing, KYC-Chain claims to have helped more than half a million customers create accounts in various industries, such as telecoms, trading, and fund management. Pros Blockchain KYC Gaining traction in the crypto world Cons Developing tech KYC-Chain Pricing No pricing information is available online. Choose KYC-Chain If You want to demonstrate to the crypto community just how invested you are in it. KYC-Chain Pros Blockchain KYC: If you want to learn more about how a shared ledger can work for ID verification , KYC-Chain is a good place to start. Gaining traction in the crypto world: Crypto exchanges must go through KYC and AML checks. It looks like KYC-Chain has specific features for that market. KYC-Chain Cons Developing tech: A new technology requires mass adoption to be truly valuable, and blockchain KYC is still in its infancy. Read more Token of Trust Conduct Electronic ID Verification What do you do if you’re the victim of an online scam? Complain to the police? Boost your online security? For Darrin Edelman, the answer was to build a better KYC tool. This was exactly how Token of Trust was born in 2015. The Minnesota-based company now offers electronic ID verification as well as document scanning and age verification. The latter is particularly useful for companies in the adult or iGaming industry. Pros A complete suite of KYC tools Global KYC and AML coverage Cons Expensive Token of Trust Pricing Unavailable online. Choose Token of Trust If You’re in an industry that requires age verification and also want to conduct identity document verification (IDV) and biometric authentication. The company’s unique PACT Act compliance feature is also targeted to companies in the tobacco industry. Token of Trust Pros A complete suite of KYC tools: You’ve got identity verification, biometric authentication, and even age verification. Global KYC and AML coverage: Judging from online reviews, Token of Trust delivers excellent results in numerous markets worldwide. Token of Trust Cons Expensive: Token of Trust customers report that the company’s pricing is at the higher end of the spectrum. Read more ComplyAdvantage Get AML & KYC with a Free Plan ComplyAdvantage is another solution whose goal is to make compliance less painful. It offers customer screening and monitoring for KYC, but also transaction screening and media checks, making an ideal solution for all your AML needs. All the integration is done via APIs, and one of its key advantages is that you can try a free version if you’re a fintech startup or scale-up. For the sake of transparency, we should point out that Charles Delingpole, one of ComplyAdvantage’s founders, is a SEON investor. Pros Easy integration Free plan Ideal for KYC and AML Cons No data enrichment ComplyAdvantage Pricing Pricing is available upon request. The ComplyLaunch program gives fintech startups and scale-ups free access to some of ComplyAdvantage’s tools. Choose ComplyAdvantage If You are eligible for its free services for startups and want to leverage APIs for AML and KYC. ComplyAdvantage Pros Easy integration: Connect your system to ComplyAdvantage via well-documented APIs. Free plan: It’s rare to find KYC solutions with a non-paying (albeit limited) plan. Ideal for KYC and AML: PEP screening, adverse media checks… You’ve got all the tools needed to comply with both KYC and AML regulations. ComplyAdvantage Cons No data enrichment: You can verify identities but won’t be able to complete user profiles based on alternative data. Read more Ondato Leverage Biometrics for KYC If you need video ID verification and facial biometrics, Ondato should be on your radar. The Lithuanian company hopes that its KYC software is so frictionless that it will be close to enjoyable for your customers. It certainly seems to have its fans, as companies such as General Financing, Swedbank, and NFT Venture rely on its technology for both KYC and AML. Pros Full suite of KYC tools White label option Cons No data enrichment Ondato Pricing The lowest price is a $569 license per month, to which you must add $0.85 per verification. It is a sliding scale, though, and prices vary depending on whether you need to verify IDs only, or also check PEP lists, for instance. Choose Ondato If A full suite of KYC tools is what you require. Ondato Pros Full suite of KYC tools: It’s not just video verification with Ondato – you also get e-signatures, NFC verification, and biometrics, among others. White label option: You can hide the Ondato branding to reassure customers. Ondato Cons No data enrichment: It’s great for ID verification, but you can’t rely on Ondato for risk management. Read more Reduce Fraud Rates and Save on KYC Partner with SEON to reduce fraud rates in your business with real-time data enrichment, whitebox machine learning, and advanced APIs. Speak with an Expert Actico KYC for Traditional Finance Actico, which offers full digital transformation and decision automation products for some of the world’s leading financial institutions, also offers a complete compliance suite. It is designed specifically for AML, KYC, sanction list and PEP screening, and transaction screening. It also provides trade surveillance and even plays nicely with the renowned Avaloq Core banking system. Companies currently relying on Actico include Santander, Volkswagen Financial Services, and ING, among others, and there is a definite focus on traditional banking rather than, say, neobanks or challenger banks. Pros Powerful suite of compliance products Part of a larger business information (BI) ecosystem Cons Pricier product Focus on traditional financial institution (FI) tools Actico Pricing: Not available online. Choose Actico If You are a traditional financial institution needing KYC and AML compliance – especially if you rely on the Avaloq Core banking system. Actico Pros Powerful suite of compliance products : You get the KYC solution you need, plus transaction screening and AML as part of the deal. Part of a larger BI ecosystem: Actico also offers products for credit decisioning, fraud prevention, claims management, and fraud prevention. Actico Cons Pricier product: There is no public information on the official pricing, but it is understood that Actico targets enterprise customers with a legacy pricing model that includes multi-year contracts. Focus on traditional FI tools: Actico targets renowned banks. If you need a more agile and flexible KYC solution, this might not be the best tool for you. Read more iComply Know Your Customer and Business iComply, also known as iComplyKYC, clearly states that it offers all the tools you need for identity validation. What are these tools exactly? Well, for starters, you have document verification, identity proofing, and identity verification using biometric authentication. There are also KYB tools to help your compliance even further. If you also need anti-money laundering tools, the company has got you covered with watchlists, PEP, and adverse media checks – all available via modules that you can enable or disable depending on your current regulatory needs. Pros Choice of integration KYB tools Cons Opaque pricing structure iComply Pricing You have to contact the iComply team for pricing details. Choose iComply If You want modular KYC, KYB, and AML tools that integrate in various ways with your business processes. iComply Pros Choice of integration: iComply lets you easily integrate via API or JavaScript. On-premise is also an option. KYB tools: You can know everything you need about customers and businesses, including ultimate beneficial owners. iComply Cons Opaque pricing structure: There is a pricing calculator on the iComply website, but it won’t let you see the results until you speak with the sales team. Read more What Technologies Does KYC Software Use? Since there are no set rules for performing a KYC check, a number of technologies may be employed and often combined as part of a multi-layered approach. Real-time Video and Liveness Verification Real-time ID checks are usually provided by a third-party company. You integrate the software into your system, and it allows customers to upload official documents to the site. Supported ID documents may include passports, driving licenses, or residency permits. Pros and cons: Video streaming is quickly becoming the global standard for ID verification in the financial services industry. While the technology is quickly improving, it is still considered high friction; it’s a clear obstacle in your customer’s journey. This can be particularly damaging if you offer fast, mobile services where user experience is a competitive advantage, for instance as a neobank or challenger bank. Fraudsters are also increasingly good at bypassing video and ID verification with doctored documents and videos (deepfakes). Biometrics Another growing area of identity verification for KYC is the use of biometric technology. It includes physical measurements that are unique to each individual, such as a face ID, voice recognition, or fingerprint identification. In KYC, biometrics are often used at the authentication stage to ensure the person performing the action is the right one. There is an overlap with liveness identification and multi-factor authentication (MFA). Pros and cons: Biometrics is a great tool for quick authentication, but it’s not enough to confirm the quality of ID documents. There are also reported high levels of false positives where the scanning isn’t precise enough to function properly. Blockchain While blockchain technology is commonly associated with cryptocurrencies, there has been a recent push to leverage it to store and share KYC identifiers anonymously. The idea is to capture user ID data, verify it once, and turn it into immutable data points that are accessible without revealing personal information – with enough confidence in their accuracy to pass a KYC check. Pros and cons: Blockchain KYC tools have a ton of potential. They can scale and be much more affordable than traditional KYC software. However, these kinds of solutions will only show their true worth once adoption becomes more mainstream. Digital Footprint Analysis Sometimes a key part of a KYC check is simply proving that the person exists. With digital footprint analysis, the idea is to rely on a user’s behavior, social media presence, and online history to confirm that they are real. You can also get a better idea of who you’re dealing with by checking the tools they use. An email address or phone number, for instance, can reveal a lot of information about someone. The same can be true of the devices they rely on to connect to your site. You may not be able to confirm their IDs, but you can certainly flag suspicious behavior to learn if the person in question is a criminal or not. Pros and cons: Digital footprint analysis is fast and frictionless, as it happens behind the scenes. It’s a fantastic way to filter out junk users and obvious fraudsters. However, as a standalone technique, it’s not enough to confirm someone’s identity. AI and Machine Learning While the terms artificial intelligence and machine learning may seem daunting, there’s another word you can use to describe the technology: automation. In short, it’s about using automated systems to accelerate verification to work with a higher volume of applications, whether it’s for image quality checks, document digitization, or suggesting risk rules. The key point is that you can’t outsource KYC to machines; the algorithms are simply a way to help with existing processes. Pros and cons: AI and machine learning are fantastic tools to automate existing processes, but you must be able to trust the quality of your tech. It’s also worth considering whether you want to work with a blackbox (opaque) or whitebox (transparent) system. The former is designed to work out of the box. The latter can give you human-readable reasons to understand how it works so you can have more control. Improve the Way You Do KYC Partner with SEON to stop losing money to fraud, and save money with pre-KYC checks. Speak with an Expert Choosing the Best KYC Software With an increasing number of options for KYC verification , it’s useful to understand how KYC software works and which solutions make sense for your business. Hopefully, this article will be a good primer on the topic, whether you need to perform KYC checks via data enrichment or ID document verification. FAQs Why do you need to invest in KYC software? KYC software is one of the most convenient solutions for automating Know Your Customer checks. These are legal requirements in a growing number of industries, including finance, iGaming, and crypto exchanges. KYC software can help you avoid compliance fines and accelerate customer verification to onboard more new customers without spending additional resources. What does KYC stand for? KYC stands for Know Your Customer. It is a set of guidelines that come from local regulators to ensure businesses know who they are dealing with. What do you need for KYC? The minimum requirements include knowing the customer’s full name, address, and date of birth. It usually involves checking an ID document such as a driver’s license, passport, or residency certificate. Share Share Share Table of contents What Is KYC Software? Top Features The 10 Best KYC Software Solutions SEON Onfido Trulioo Refinitiv KYC-Chain Token of Trust ComplyAdvantage Ondato Actico iComply What Technologies Does KYC Software Use? How to Choose the Best KYC Software FAQs You Might Be Interested In Previous Next Article Fraud is Not a Single Moment in Time: The Ongoing Battle Against Digital Deception Combat fraud with proactive strategies like continuous monitoring, machine learning, and smarter detection methods. Guide Collaborative Strategies for Mitigating Fraud Risks in Digital Banking Expansion As digital banking expands rapidly, especially in emerging markets, it faces not only the promise of growth but also a… Article A Look at Holiday Fraud Trends: Examining Volume, Types and Prevention Strategies In the lead-up to the fast-approaching and busy holiday season, we’ve been carefully analyzing customer data, as we do each… Article Integrating Fraud Insights into AML Investigations: Effective Approaches for Compliance Teams Integrating fraud insights into AML workflows streamlines compliance, reduces costs, and improves risk monitoring. Webinar The Evolution of KYC: Strategies to Lower Costs and Enhance Customer Experience This webinar will explore how adopting advanced pre-KYC processes can revolutionize customer onboarding, allowing digital banks, fintechs, and payment companies… Article Advanced AML Transaction Monitoring Rules for Fraud & Compliance Teams Read how SEON’s advanced AML transaction monitoring cuts false positives, detects threats, and ensures compliance with real-time, customizable rules. Article The Talk of SBC Summit Latinoamérica: Brazil’s High-Stakes Gambling Regulatory Landscape SBC’s Summit Latinoamérica brought together industry leaders, regulators and technology providers to discuss pressing issues and emerging opportunities in Latin… Case study iGaming Operator LeoVegas Uses SEON to Detect 10% More Fraud and Increase Analyst Efficiency LeoVegas uses SEON to cut manual reviews by 30% and improve fraud detection by 10%, ensuring scalable fraud prevention. Guide Onboarding Risk Reduction in Digital Banking Download our free guide to secure efficient digital bank onboarding and tackle evolving fraud risks. Take the First Step Toward Transformative Fraud Prevention “SEON significantly enhanced our fraud prevention efficiency, freeing up time and resources for better policies, procedures and rules.” Vladislav Notevskyi, Head of KYC, Soft2Bet Automate 95% of fraud checks Reduce fraudulent registrations by 90% Accelerate manual reviews by 90% Trusted by 5,000+ Global Organizations: Book Time With Our Experts Google Client ID First Name * Last Name * Business email * Company name * Country * Country Afghanistan Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Asia/Pacific Region Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory British Virgin Islands Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Canary Islands Cape Verde Caribbean Netherlands Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic Republic of the Congo Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic East Timor Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Europe Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern and Antarctic Lands Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kosovo Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau Macedonia (FYROM) Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar (Burma) Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island North Korea Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Islands Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Romania Russia Rwanda Réunion Saint Barthélemy Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands South Korea South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu U.S. Virgin Islands Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vatican City Venezuela Vietnam Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Åland Islands Job Title * Phone Number Please select all that apply * Fraud Prevention AML & Compliance Transaction monitoring White Glove Services How did you hear about us? * Just like you, we hate spam. We won't call you and we will only send you relevant emails, which you can opt-out of at any time. By signing up, you agree to our Terms Of Service and Privacy Policy . 4.7 4.9 Products Digital Footprint Device Intelligence AI & Machine Learning Customer Screening & Monitoring Case Management Shopify AWS Free Trial Use Cases Account Takeover Bonus Abuse Fake & Synthetic IDs Registration & Onboarding Transaction Monitoring Login & Activity Monitoring AI Automation Industries Financial Services iGaming Retail Payment Fraud Fintech Resources Articles Guides Comparisons Case Studies Events Webinars Dictionary Developers API Reference Knowledge Base Github Company About Us Contact Us Partners News Mediaroom Careers LinkedIn X Instagram Facebook Legal & Security FAQ API Status © 2024 Copyright SEON Technologies Ltd. ES EN

---

KNOW YOUR CUSTOMER (KYC) Leverage Intelligent Automation and achieve superior customer experience by automating the account opening process and the entire KYC verification process. Intelligent Automation in Know Your Customer (KYC) Know Your Customer is a standard enterprise process in all sectors. It involves validating the data from different documents in an unstructured format. Datamatics Intelligent Automation Platform enables enterprises to execute KYC verification tasks in one-tenth of the time required for manual processing. It extracts data with high accuracy levels and integrates it with the downstream system. The platform also enables data synchronization with different systems in the ecosystem in real-time. Find out How Automated KYC Verification Use Cases KYC Process Use Intelligent Automation to auto-capture data from different channels, such as IT Helpdesk, internet portal extensions, financial crime risk management solutions, Excel massaging data, etc., to maintain status file and make KYC FIT. Read Case Study → Talk To An Automation Expert → Explore The IA Potential  → KYC Cheque Return Use RPA bots to facilitate closure of the non-KYC compliant accounts as per the KYC cheque return policy of the bank. Read Case Study → Talk To An Automation Expert → KYC Validation With Central KYC (CKYC) Portal Confirm or reject KYC records in the central KYC (CKYC) portal and give the status to the customer. Read Case Study → Talk To An Automation Expert → Police Correspondence Download KYC documents from CKYC to fulfill police scrutiny and related procedure for the onboarding customers. Read Case Study → Talk To An Automation Expert → Customer Due Diligence And KYC Automate Customer Due Diligence (CDD) and KYC process. Reduce the workload on skilled analysts who spend hours combing through internal and external systems to gather customer-related information amidst increasingly complex statutory mandates. Read Case Study → Talk To An Automation Expert → Explore The IA Potential  → KYC For Loan Processing Check relevant data fields against a checklist from the regulatory authorities, initiate the loan origination process. Read Case Study → Talk To An Automation Expert → Explore The IA Potential  → Remote Account Opening KYC Automate the intake and processing of documents submitted by customers using Intelligent Automation, which are then automatically verified, along with KYC norms and approved/rejected automatically without the need for a customer to visit the branch. Read Case Study → Talk To An Automation Expert → Explore The IA Potential  → Download Now Whitepaper Intelligent Automation - A Holistic Approach To Manage Workload Fluctuations Intelligent Automation is a direct function of People-Process-Technology integration. Download Now → Download Now Download Now CASE STUDY TruBot automates KYC form processing for a leading bank 50% Reduction In Man Hours by automation of the entire KYC processing cycle including receipt of documents via fax, mail, courier, scanning, processing, validating, document management, and generation of MIS reports. Download Now → Download Now Watch Now Demo Customer KYC Automation Check how the Customer KYC Automation process is automated with the Datamatics Intelligent Automation platform. Watch Now → Watch Now Talk To An Automation Expert Talk to a automation expert from Datamatics about your specific challenges or queries and we will walk you through solutions that can help First name * Last name * Email * Phone number * * Afghanistan (‫افغانستان‬‎) Albania (Shqipëri) Algeria (‫الجزائر‬‎) American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia (Հայաստան) Aruba Australia Austria (Österreich) Azerbaijan (Azərbaycan) Bahamas Bahrain (‫البحرين‬‎) Bangladesh (বাংলাদেশ) Barbados Belarus (Беларусь) Belgium (België) Belize Benin (Bénin) Bermuda Bhutan (འབྲུག) Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina (Босна и Херцеговина) Botswana Brazil (Brasil) British Indian Ocean Territory British Virgin Islands Brunei Bulgaria (България) Burkina Faso Burundi (Uburundi) Cambodia (កម្ពុជា) Cameroon (Cameroun) Canada Cape Verde (Kabu Verdi) Caribbean Netherlands Cayman Islands Central African Republic (République centrafricaine) Chad (Tchad) Chile China (中国) Colombia Comoros (‫جزر القمر‬‎) Congo (DRC) (Jamhuri ya Kidemokrasia ya Kongo) Congo (Republic) (Congo-Brazzaville) Cook Islands Costa Rica Côte d’Ivoire Croatia (Hrvatska) Cuba Curaçao Cyprus (Κύπρος) Czech Republic (Česká republika) Denmark (Danmark) Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic (República Dominicana) Ecuador Egypt (‫مصر‬‎) El Salvador Equatorial Guinea (Guinea Ecuatorial) Eritrea Estonia (Eesti) Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas) Faroe Islands (Føroyar) Fiji Finland (Suomi) France French Guiana (Guyane française) French Polynesia (Polynésie française) Gabon Gambia Georgia (საქართველო) Germany (Deutschland) Ghana (Gaana) Gibraltar Greece (Ελλάδα) Greenland (Kalaallit Nunaat) Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guinea (Guinée) Guinea-Bissau (Guiné Bissau) Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong (香港) Hungary (Magyarország) Iceland (Ísland) India (भारत) Indonesia Iran (‫ایران‬‎) Iraq (‫العراق‬‎) Ireland Israel (‫ישראל‬‎) Italy (Italia) Jamaica Japan (日本) Jordan (‫الأردن‬‎) Kazakhstan (Казахстан) Kenya Kiribati Kosovo Kuwait (‫الكويت‬‎) Kyrgyzstan (Кыргызстан) Laos (ລາວ) Latvia (Latvija) Lebanon (‫لبنان‬‎) Lesotho Liberia Libya (‫ليبيا‬‎) Liechtenstein Lithuania (Lietuva) Luxembourg Macau (澳門) Macedonia (FYROM) (Македонија) Madagascar (Madagasikara) Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania (‫موريتانيا‬‎) Mauritius (Moris) Mexico (México) Micronesia Moldova (Republica Moldova) Monaco Mongolia (Монгол) Montenegro (Crna Gora) Montserrat Morocco (‫المغرب‬‎) Mozambique (Moçambique) Myanmar (Burma) (မြန်မာ) Namibia (Namibië) Nauru Nepal (नेपाल) Netherlands (Nederland) New Caledonia (Nouvelle-Calédonie) New Zealand Nicaragua Niger (Nijar) Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island North Korea (조선 민주주의 인민 공화국) Northern Mariana Islands Norway (Norge) Oman (‫عُمان‬‎) Pakistan (‫پاکستان‬‎) Palau Palestine (‫فلسطين‬‎) Panama (Panamá) Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru (Perú) Philippines Poland (Polska) Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar (‫قطر‬‎) Réunion (La Réunion) Romania (România) Russia (Россия) Rwanda Saint Barthélemy (Saint-Barthélemy) Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin (Saint-Martin (partie française)) Saint Pierre and Miquelon (Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon) Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino São Tomé and Príncipe (São Tomé e Príncipe) Saudi Arabia (‫المملكة العربية السعودية‬‎) Senegal (Sénégal) Serbia (Србија) Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten Slovakia (Slovensko) Slovenia (Slovenija) Solomon Islands Somalia (Soomaaliya) South Africa South Korea (대한민국) South Sudan (‫جنوب السودان‬‎) Spain (España) Sri Lanka (ශ්‍රී ලංකාව) Sudan (‫السودان‬‎) Suriname Swaziland Sweden (Sverige) Switzerland (Schweiz) Syria (‫سوريا‬‎) Taiwan (台灣) Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand (ไทย) Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia (‫تونس‬‎) Turkey (Türkiye) Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu U.S. Virgin Islands Uganda Ukraine (Україна) United Arab Emirates (‫الإمارات العربية المتحدة‬‎) United Kingdom United States Uruguay Uzbekistan (Oʻzbekiston) Vanuatu Vatican City (Città del Vaticano) Venezuela Vietnam (Việt Nam) Wallis and Futuna Yemen (‫اليمن‬‎) Zambia Zimbabwe Company name * Job Title * Country * Please Select Afghanistan Åland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Asia/Pacific Region Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory British Virgin Islands Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Caribbean Netherlands Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic Republic of the Congo Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic East Timor Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Europe Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern and Antarctic Lands Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau Macedonia (FYROM) Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar (Burma) Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island North Korea Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Islands Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Réunion Romania Russia Rwanda Saint Barthélemy Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands South Korea South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu U.S. Virgin Islands Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vatican City Venezuela Vietnam Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Middle East City Contact Type Referral email address 1 Let us know your query * LOS1 By submitting this form, you agree to receive marketing communications from Datamatics. For more information, please see our privacy policy . Start Automating. Find out where to begin by consulting with a Datamatics professional. Get Started

---

e-Book The experts guide to KYC automation Mitigate onboarding risk and provide a seamless customer experience – with advanced, AI-powered processes. Large financial firms spend a reported $150 million on KYC-related procedures, while their average number of KYC compliance professionals has skyrocketed to 307. The rapid rise of online banking and payment services has added a further layer of complexity to KYC tasks, making confirming identities and combating money laundering more challenging than ever. Automated KYC processes are meeting this challenge. Drawing together billions of data points and AI-powered analytics, these solutions allow risk management and compliance teams to identify and connect critical facts and achieve process efficiencies. Download our new e-book, the Experts Guide to KYC Automation, and learn how these solutions can help you: Slash the average costs of manual KYC processes Increase operational efficiency and grow your client base Simplify audits through process automation Access the full e-book First name * Last name * Email address * Phone number (numerals only; no dashes) * Country/region * Select United States United Kingdom Canada Auckland Islands Afghanistan Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil Brit/Indian Ocean Terr. Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cote D'Ivoire Cambodia Cameroon Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Terr. Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard/McDonald Islands Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea (North) Korea (South) Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar N. Mariana Islands Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territory Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Barthelemy Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Samoa San Marino Sao Tome/Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovak Republic Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Spain Sri Lanka St. Helena St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and Grenadines Sudan Suriname Svalbard/Jan Mayen Islands Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks/Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates Uruguay US Minor Outlying Islands Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vatican City Venezuela Viet Nam Virgin Islands (British) Virgin Islands (U.S.) Wallis/Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Post code * Organization type * Select Academic Accounting Firm Corporation ($0-500 Million Revenue) Corporation ($501M or more Revenue) Financial institution Government - Federal Government - State & Local Law Firm (1-6 attorneys) Law Firm (7-10 attorneys) Law Firm (11-29 attorneys) Law Firm (30 or more attorneys) Law School Faculty Law Student Category * Select Investigative / Due Diligence Collections / Repossession Legal Department Organization name * Job title * I consent to Thomson Reuters using the personal information provided above to send me marketing communications about its products and services. I understand I can opt-out at any time. By submitting this form, you acknowledge the Thomson Reuters group of companies will process your personal information as described in our Privacy Statement , which explains how we collect, use, store, and disclose your personal information, the consequences if you do not provide this information, and the way in which you can access and correct your personal information or submit a complaint. Accept Terms (Optional) Submit

---

Top 10 KYC Providers 2023 In this article Main Articles Top 10 KYC Providers 2023 Close Titles In this article by Constantine Belov As a hard-working, goal-oriented, and well-rounded person, I always strive to do quality work for every job I do. Faced with challenging tasks in life, I have developed the habit of thinking rationally and creatively to solve problems, which not only helps me develop as a person, but also as a professional. Read More Proofreader Tamta Suladze Tamta is a content writer based in Georgia with five years of experience covering global financial and crypto markets for news outlets, blockchain companies, and crypto businesses. With a background in higher education and a personal interest in crypto investing, she specializes in breaking down complex concepts into easy-to-understand information for new crypto investors. Tamta's writing is both professional and relatable, ensuring her readers gain valuable insight and knowledge. Read More Share Top 10 KYC Providers 2023 Articles August 17, 2023 9 min Today, the cryptocurrency industry is experiencing unprecedented popularity, which on the one hand, it gives many advantages from using its potential, but on the other hand becomes the object of fraudulent activity, which is primarily aimed at cryptocurrency exchanges. Thus, to be able to trade and perform other types of financial transactions, new users undergo the KYC procedure , which is the central part of the process of verifying their identity. This article will talk about what KYC technology is and what are the benefits of using it. You will also learn about the 10 most successful and outstanding KYC providers in 2023. Key Takeaways KYC system is a universal tool that is used in the world of finance to ensure a complete process of user identification. KYC solutions provide an excellent level of protection of users’ personal information, help to fight money laundering and eliminate acts of fraud within the framework of work with finances. KYC providers are specialised companies whose work lies within the development of solutions to ensure the completeness and quality of the user identification procedure. What is a KYC Technology? KYC, or “Know Your Customer”, is a process that financial entities and corporations of all kinds use to verify the identity of their customers. This process helps to ensure the security of these organisations by verifying that their customers are who they claim to be and are not involved in illegal or fraudulent activities. Thus, in 2023, KYC will remain an essential part of the financial services industry, and the crypto industry in particular, as there is always a need to authenticate the identity of customers in order to protect and counteract money laundering and related activities. One of the critical elements of KYC is identity verification. This process involves confirming the identity of the user through several methods. On the one hand, there is the verification of relevant electronic identity documents, be it a passport, driver’s license or bank statement containing information on the place of registration. On the other hand, facial recognition technology and biometric authentication is used, which involves visual scanning of the client’s face using a system of gestures that must be performed in order to complete the verification process. These methods are not exhaustive, as today, with the development of crypto technologies, KYC solutions are being developed in parallel to meet crypto organisations’ requirements and security standards. Another important part of KYC technology is record keeping. What is meant by this is that all financial institutions, organisations and other institutions must keep records of the identity of all their customers so that they can refer to them in the event of any suspicious or illegal activity. This mechanism is highly likely to help prevent situations in which accounts are hacked and stolen and withdrawal of funds and coins from the wallet account, phishing, and other illegal operations aimed at defrauding and swindling users out of their money. Thus, KYC is an integral element of the system that ensures the safety and security of not only the funds and capital of users, but also customer data, which in turn helps maintain a high level of anonymity. Despite its simplicity, verification of documents can provide the necessary conditions for the process of combating money laundering, preventing payment fraud and fraud, which ultimately allows you to comfortably trade in any financial market without fear for the safety of funds and capital. Moreover, the application of modern KYC software within any financial institution for the purposes of secure digital identity and automation of verification processes will minimise the occurrence of any type of illegal and unlawful activity that will increase the overall security of all elements of the financial asset trading process. KYC solutions are a group of software that will soon be powered by artificial intelligence . What Are The Benefits of Using KYC Technology? Today, security in the financial markets is of paramount importance and KYC solutions as an important element of the system providing this security as part of the customer onboarding process are becoming increasingly popular, not least because of their many advantages that provide immeasurable benefits to companies in the financial sector. Let’s take a look at the main ones below. Fighting Money Laundering Money laundering is primarily related to the activity in which the proceeds of criminal activity are legitimised. This problem is very acute today due to the growing popularity of trading in financial assets, especially with the advent of crypto technologies, which in turn spurs the interest of criminals and criminal organisations in carrying out all kinds of illegal activities aimed at money laundering in any financial markets. KYC technology plays an essential role in anti-money laundering and identification of users’ identities, and already at the early stages of registration, it helps to eliminate the emergence of situations conducive to the development of activities aimed at money laundering. Preventing Fraudulent Activity Today, fraudulent activities have a wide range of activities aimed at gaining access to personal and investment information of users, extortion, phishing, and deception to obtain funds, money laundering, hacking, and interference with security systems in order to reduce the potential level of protection of the entire process of trading and investment activities in the market. KYC system provides invaluable assistance in matters related to the protection of personal and financial data of users, primarily helping fraud prevention and payment fraud prevention, which according to statistics, is one of the most popular ways of deception and fraud by criminal organisations and attackers. Protecting Customer Data User data is of the highest value in any organisation, and its safety and confidentiality are the highest priority within the security framework. Such data includes all personal information about the person who has a trading account on the trading platform. On the other hand, investment information related to the user’s trading activity and including data on account status, trading activity, transactions made, etc., is of particular value. KYC solutions with built-in suspicious activity detection systems can report the need to block the user’s account in order to identify potential threats creating such activity and eliminate it by applying appropriate measures or identity verification services aimed at re-identifying the user’s identity based on document verification or biometric authentication solution. Simplifying the Identification Process Before KYC systems were introduced, the process of identifying individuals was difficult and mediocre, which created some difficulties in uncovering fraud patterns. This was a big problem when it came to ensuring the protection and security of users’ personal and financial data. With the advent of KYC software, automating verification processes have been applied which has made the identification process much easier, faster and more comfortable without violating the privacy policy, which plays a paramount role in the basis of maintaining user trust. Protecting from Unauthorized Third Party Access KYC solutions provide an additional level of security, including the use of two-factor identification systems or protection by resetting an additional account password to email or phone to uncover fraud patterns and prevent  third parties from accessing the account. This method helps to maintain the necessary level of security throughout the entire time of using the platform’s services, in particular trading. Most Outstanding KYC Providers in 2023 Today, the market for KYC solutions is full of many options, each with its own features, advantages, and disadvantages. The development of the cryptocurrency sector in particular has become a catalyst for many companies involved in the development of security solutions, creating KYC systems. Let’s take a look at the top 10 most successful companies in the KYC software market. Shufti Pro Shufti Pro is a cutting-edge identity verification provider that utilises artificial intelligence to create more effective KYC and AML screening solutions. This software provides a simple and effective method of preventing online fraud and identity theft while being reasonably priced and able to authenticate everyone worldwide. A sizable data bank has been developed by Shufti Pro to combat financial crime, which contains profiles from 1,000 sanctions and watch lists maintained by domestic and international law enforcement agencies. Furthermore, this database includes information originating from 3,000 databases maintained by international financial watchdogs and authorities and PEP lists mandated by the FATF. Data checks based on Anti-Money Laundering (AML) by Shufti Pro protect businesses against financial risks and penalties. Trulioo A global identity verification service provider, Trulioo verifies customer information from over 400 sources, including a database of more than 5 billion individuals worldwide. A $2 billion valuation has been assigned to the Vancouver-based startup since it was founded in 2011. The Trulioo service offers a full range of security systems, including KYC solutions with a secure digital identity network that allows identity verification elements by verifying the user’s address, documents, and accounts. All this allows the company to occupy one of the leading positions in ranking the most successful companies offering security solutions. Ondato Ondato , an AML and KYC process optimisation technology company, has launched sales of its high-precision artificial intelligence-based OCR (Optical Character Recognition) technology as a standalone solution to other identity system providers. The efficient, accurate and fast technology, built into Ondato’s proprietary solutions for identity verification and onboarding processes in organisations, is now available as an open API integration for use by third parties. It can read and digitise more than 10,000 document templates in less than a second with 99.8% accuracy and automatically transfers the data to any system – such as a CRM, database or other tool, enabling significantly faster KYC and AML compliance for organisations during onboarding anywhere in the world and across all industry sectors. Fractal ID With a conversion rate of 40% when compared to industry standards, Fractal ID is a KYC/AML service platform from the German fintech firm Fractal that offers quick and accurate global verification. OCR and face recognition are used to check passports and national IDs. In addition to providing KYC/AML regulatory norms at the bank level, Fractal ID complies with GDPR. There are several degrees of verification supported by Fractal ID. Each level can also be enhanced with a variety of add-ons. This will affect the data the user is asked to share and, as a result, how they interact with Fractal ID. Sumsub SumSub is a single solution for all tasks related to remote user verification for security and compliance. Artificial intelligence-based technology automates identity and document verification to protect against fraud. It also provides KYC, KYT checks, AML screening, and customer data storage for security and regulatory compliance. Sumsub also provides companies with an AI-based identity verification system for users and corporate customers. Verification takes 60 seconds, the company says – for example, the service can determine if a document photo has been altered. It takes several hours to verify a company – the service analyses commercial activities in a particular country, managers, and beneficiaries, considering the peculiarities of regulation in different countries. Seon In order to prevent money laundering on cryptocurrency exchanges and in the Forex market, SEON is one of the most effective, flexible, and complete KYC technologies available. The business keeps an eye out for questionable conduct in the media and online using its arsenal of KYC and AML technologies using a special customer identification program. Additionally, the business provides a huge selection of analytics tools for studying user activity. Onfido Onfido is an English company that offers an online user identification service using facial biometrics. Popular crypto exchanges and other financial organisations actively cooperate with Onfido. The company’s arsenal includes solutions for biometric user identification, AML compliance verification, and other criteria that form the backbone of any financial institution’s security. According to the verification system developed by Onfido, it is necessary to go through two steps; where in the first step, it is required to present a valid document, for example, a passport or driver’s license – where a person’s photo will be displayed, his name and surname will be read in Latin. There will be other data from the document that will confirm its validity. In the second step, it is necessary to connect the webcam of your computer and take a high-quality photo of your face, after that the artificial intelligence (as it is stated by Onfido) will check everything and decide online whether the photo in the document corresponds to the photo of the person from the webcam, if the intelligence so considers, it means that it will be possible to pass this very identification. Refinitiv Refinitiv is a global financial market data and infrastructure provider offering businesses a range of KYC solutions. Its World-Check product is a risk intelligence database that helps companies comply with anti-money laundering (AML) and counter-terrorism financing (CTF) regulations. Refinitiv’s solutions are robust, reliable, and innovative technology has a user-friendly interface, making it an appealing choice for businesses looking to enhance their KYC processes. KYC-Chain Using a cutting-edge platform called KYC-Chain , businesses and financial institutions can manage client data confidently and efficiently, while consumers can securely manage their digital identities. This platform was created on top of the practicality and security of distributed ledger technology. For businesses and financial institutions, KYC-Chain offers consensus on the identities of people and firms at the most significant degree of trust, streamlining the process of onboarding new clients while maintaining regulatory compliance. With new KYC-Chain technology, businesses can conduct smart verification processes that will satisfy regulators. At the same time, end users can become the only owners of their identity data. ComplyAdvantage ComplyAdvantage is a service offering  KYB, KYC and AML instruments for dealing with financial crime risks and technologies for their detection based on artificial intelligence. ComplyAdvantage’s mission is to neutralise the risk of laundering proceeds of crime, terrorist financing, corruption and other financial crimes. ComplyAdvantage collects information about suspicious customers from various databases, from government organisations to financial companies. In total, the company claims to have 20,000 sources. Its software identifies suspicious transactions by checking customer data and transaction information against these lists. Conclusion The importance of KYC technology these days can hardly be overemphasised. Providing a high level of security and safety of personal and financial information, as well as reducing the probability of theft, phishing and hacking due to its numerous advantages, KYC technology plays a crucial role in the formation of a system providing a secure process of working in the financial markets. Seeking answers or advice? Share your queries in the form for personalized assistance B2Broker uses the information you provide to us to notify you about updates to our products and services. For more information, check out our Privacy Policy Request a Callback by Constantine Belov As a hard-working, goal-oriented, and well-rounded person, I always strive to do quality work for every job I do. Faced with challenging tasks in life, I have developed the habit of thinking rationally and creatively to solve problems, which not only helps me develop as a person, but also as a professional. Read More Proofreader Tamta Suladze Tamta is a content writer based in Georgia with five years of experience covering global financial and crypto markets for news outlets, blockchain companies, and crypto businesses. With a background in higher education and a personal interest in crypto investing, she specializes in breaking down complex concepts into easy-to-understand information for new crypto investors. Tamta's writing is both professional and relatable, ensuring her readers gain valuable insight and knowledge. Read More Share Related news Why is AML Screening Important? What is Trader’s Room and How it Simplifies Forex Trading Choosing Regulation for Forex Broker Licence in 2023. Pros & Cons Why KYC is Important for Brokerage Companies Subscribe  to our newsletter Subscribe By clicking “Subscribe”, you agree to the Privacy Policy Read also How to Calculate Profit and Loss – Investor’s Guide 2025 Articles How to Develop a DEX Platform in 2025 Articles Grid Trading — What is it And How to Benefit From it? Articles US Inflation is UP! Will The Interest Rate Cuts Continue? Industry News Library What is a Margin Call? Basic What is Overnight Trading, and How Does it Affect the Markets? Advanced What is an IOC Order? Advanced What is a Contract Size? Definition & Overview Professional Please fill the form and send request. We will send you a link! B2Broker uses the information you provide to us to contact you about our relevant content, products and services. For more information, check out our Privacy Policy. Request a Callback Thanks for your request! We will contact you shortly Subscribe and stay tuned for the latest innovations in the FX, Crypto, Prime Brokerage & FinTech industries. Join our webinar We offer a large range of products and services to enhance your business operations. Check them out here... B2Broker uses the information you provide to us to contact you about our relevant content, products and services. For more information, check out our Privacy Policy. Request a Callback Please complete the form and submit your request. We will be in touch shortly. We offer a large range of products and services to enhance your business operations. Learn more. B2Broker uses the information you provide to us to contact you about our relevant content, products and services. For more information, check out our Privacy Policy. Request a Callback

---

Table of Contents Expand Table of Contents Know Your Client (KYC) Understanding KYC KYC Requirements KYC Compliance AML and KYC KYC and Cryptocurrency FAQs The Bottom Line Laws & Regulations SEC Know Your Client (KYC): What It Means and Compliance Requirements By James Chen Full Bio James Chen, CMT is an expert trader, investment adviser, and global market strategist. Learn about our editorial policies Updated August 06, 2024 Reviewed by Eric Estevez Fact checked by David Rubin Fact checked by David Rubin Full Bio David is comprehensively experienced in many facets of financial and legal research and publishing. As an Investopedia fact checker since 2020, he has validated over 1,100 articles on a wide range of financial and investment topics. Learn about our editorial policies Investopedia / Yurle Villegas Close What Is Know Your Client (KYC)? Know Your Client (KYC) is a standard in the investment industry that ensures advisors can verify a client's identity and know their client's investment knowledge and financial profile. Three components of KYC include the customer identification program (CIP), imposed under the USA PATRIOT Act in 2001, customer due diligence (CDD), and ongoing monitoring or enhanced due diligence (EDD) of a customer's account once it is established. 1 2 Key Takeaways Know Your Client (KYC) is a standard used in the investment and financial services industry to verify customers and know their risk and financial profiles. Three components of KYC include the customer identification program (CIP), customer due diligence (CDD), and enhanced due diligence (EDD). The SEC requires that each new customer provide detailed financial information before opening an investment or banking account. 3 Client-Financial Advisor Discussion Guide Should I Invest In Crypto? Download Guide Download Guide Understanding Know Your Client (KYC) The Know Your Client (KYC) rule is an ethical requirement for those in the securities industry dealing with customers during the opening and ongoing maintenance of accounts. It is implemented at the onset of the customer-broker relationship to establish the essential personal profile of each customer before any financial recommendations are made. The customer is also made aware of the need to comply with all the laws, regulations, and rules of the securities industry. 4 Take the Next Step to Invest Advertiser Disclosure × The offers that appear in this table are from partnerships from which Investopedia receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where listings appear. Investopedia does not include all offers available in the marketplace. KYC Requirements Customer Identification Program CIP requires that financial firms obtain four pieces of identifying information about a client, including name, date of birth, address, and identification number. 5 Customer Due Diligence CDD is a process in which all of a customer’s credentials are collected to verify their identity and evaluate their risk profile for suspicious account activity. Enhanced Due Diligence EDD is used for customers that are at a higher risk of infiltration, terrorism financing, or money laundering and additional information collection is often necessary. KYC Compliance Two rules governing KYC include Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) Rule 2090 (Know Your Customer) and FINRA Rule 2111 (Suitability). FINRA Rule 2090 requires every broker-dealer to use reasonable diligence when opening and maintaining client accounts and to know and keep records on the profile of each customer, as well as identify each person who has the authority to act on the customer’s behalf. 6 FINRA Rule 2111 notes that a broker-dealer must have a reasonable basis to believe that a recommendation is suitable for a customer based on the client’s financial situation and needs. This rule assumes that the broker-dealer has completed a review of the current facts and profile of the customer, including the customer’s other securities and investments before making any purchase, sale, or exchange of a security on the client's behalf. 7 AML and KYC The U.S. Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) requires both customers and financial institutions to comply with KYC standards to prevent illegal activity, specifically money laundering. AML, anti-money laundering, is a term for the range of measures and processes used to achieve regulatory compliance. KYC is a component of AML. FinCEN requires financial institutions to understand the type and purpose of the customer relationship and develop a customer risk profile, used as a baseline for detecting suspicious customer activities. 8 9 Financial institutions must also maintain current and accurate customer information and continue to monitor accounts for suspicious and illegal activities. When detected, they are required to promptly report their findings. 10 KYC and Cryptocurrency The cryptocurrency market is praised for providing a decentralized medium of exchange that promotes confidentiality. However, these benefits also present challenges in preventing money laundering. Criminals see cryptocurrency as a vehicle to launder money and as a result, governing bodies are looking for ways to impose KYC on cryptocurrency markets. 11 Are your clients interested in crypto? Use this discussion guide. Most cryptocurrency platforms are considered money services businesses (MSBs) and must comply with anti-money laundering (AML) laws, which require customer identification programs and certain reporting and recordkeeping procedures. 12 Fiat-to-crypto exchanges facilitate transactions involving fiat currencies and cryptocurrencies. Since fiat currency is the official currency of a nation, most of these exchanges employ a measure of KYC and financial institutions would have vetted their customers according to KYC requirements. 13 $60 million The penalty assessed against Bitcoin mixer Larry Dean Harmon for violating anti-money laundering laws. 14 In Dec. 2020, FinCEN proposed that cryptocurrency and digital asset market participants submit, maintain, and verify customers' identities. This rule classifies certain cryptocurrencies as monetary instruments, subjecting them to KYC requirements. The proposed rule is slated for final action in Feb. 2024. 15 16 What Is KYC Verification? The Know Your Client (KYC) verification is a set of standards and requirements used in the investment and financial services industries to ensure brokers have sufficient information about their clients, their risk profiles, and their financial position. 3 What Is KYC in the Banking Sector? KYC in the banking sector requires bankers and advisors to identify their customers, beneficial owners of businesses, and the nature and purpose of customer relationships. Banks must also review customer accounts for suspicious and illegal activity and maintain and ensure the accuracy of the customer accounts. What Are KYC Documents? Account owners generally must provide a government-issued ID as proof of identity. Some institutions require two forms of ID, such as a driver's license, birth certificate, social security card, or passport. In addition to confirming identity, the address must be confirmed. This can be done with proof of ID or with an accompanying document confirming the address of the client. 17 The Bottom Line Know Your Client (KYC) is a set of standards and requirements investment and financial services companies use to verify the identity of their customers and any associated risks with the customer relationship. KYC requires customers to provide a personal identification profile and KYC ensures investment advisors are aware of their client's risk tolerance and financial position. Article Sources Investopedia requires writers to use primary sources to support their work. These include white papers, government data, original reporting, and interviews with industry experts. We also reference original research from other reputable publishers where appropriate. You can learn more about the standards we follow in producing accurate, unbiased content in our editorial policy. Dow Jones. “ Understanding the Steps of a ‘Know Your Customer’ Process .” U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. “ Customer Identification Programs for Broker-Dealers .” Federal Register. “ Books and Records Requirements for Brokers and Dealers Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 .” Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. “ Obligations to Your Customers .” Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. “ Customer Identification Program Notice .” Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. “ 2090. Know Your Customer .” Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. “ FINRA Rule 2111 (Suitability) FAQ .” Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. “ Information on Complying with the Customer Due Diligence (CDD) Final Rule .” Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. “ FinCEN Guidance ,” Pages 1-3. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. “ Bank Secrecy Act, Anti-Money Laundering, and Office of Foreign Assets Control ,” Page 5. Congressional Research Service. “ Cryptocurrency: Selected Policy Issues .” Page 19. Congressional Research Service. “ Cryptocurrency: Selected Policy Issues .” Page 25. Cointelegraph. “ What Is KYC, and Why Do Crypto Exchanges Require It? ” U.S. Treasury Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. " First Bitcoin 'Mixer' Penalized by FinCEN or Violating Anti-Money Laundering Laws ." Federal Register. “ Requirements for Certain Transactions Involving Convertible Virtual Currency or Digital Assets .” Pages 83840-83847. Federal Register. “ 406. Requirements for Certain Transactions Involving Convertible Virtual Currency [1506–AB47] .” Page 11281. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. “ FFIEC BSA/AML Examination Manual: Customer Identification Program .” Pages 3-5. Open a New Bank Account Advertiser Disclosure × The offers that appear in this table are from partnerships from which Investopedia receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where listings appear. Investopedia does not include all offers available in the marketplace. Related Terms Regulation B (Reg B) in the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA) Regulation B outlines the rules that lenders must adhere to when obtaining and processing credit information. more Caveat: What It Means, Types, and What It Means for Investors Caveat is a Latin term used in many legal and financial terms, usually a warning to be aware of something as a matter of course. more Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS): What It Is and How It Works The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) is a government agency that produces a range of data about the U.S. economy. more What Was Enron? What Happened and Who Was Responsible Enron was a U.S. energy company that perpetrated one of the biggest accounting frauds in history. Read about Enron’s CEO and the company’s demise. more SEC Form 8-K: Definition, What It Tells You, Filing Requirements Companies are required by the Securities and Exchange Commission to file an 8-K to announce major events relevant to shareholders, such as an acquisition. more What Is SEC Form S-8? Definition Vs. S-1, Purpose, and Filing SEC Form S-8 is a registration form for securities offered as part of employee benefit plans. more Related Articles How Are Asset Management Firms Regulated? Why Is There an IPO Lock-Up Period and How Long Does It Last? Regulation B (Reg B) in the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA) How Does the International Monetary Fund Function? Caveat: What It Means, Types, and What It Means for Investors SEC Crypto Regulations: What Financial Advisors Need to Know Partner Links

---

You are here : Home Markets Digital Identity and Security Banking & Payment Services for Banks Know Your Customer in banking KYC (Know Your Customer) is today a significant element in the fight against financial crime and money laundering, and customer identification is the most critical aspect as it is the first step to better perform in the other stages of the process. The global anti-money laundering (AML) and countering the financing of terrorism (CFT) landscape raise tremendous stakes for financial institutions. International regulations influenced by standards like The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) are now implemented in national laws encompassing strong directives like AML 4 and 5 and preventive measures like "KYC" for client identification. Let's start with a definition of KYC and eKYC and discover how advanced ID verification systems can better support KYC processes . Ready? What is KYC? KYC means Know Your Customer and sometimes Know Your Client. KYC or KYC check is the mandatory process of identifying and verifying the client's identity when opening an account and periodically over time. In other words, banks must ensure that their clients are genuinely who they claim to be. Banks may refuse to open an account or halt a business relationship if the client fails to meet minimum KYC requirements. KYC cloud services to secure digital onboarding Read more on ID Verification Why is the KYC process important? KYC procedures defined by banks involve all the necessary actions to ensure their customers are real and assess and monitor risks. These client-onboarding processes help prevent and identify money laundering, terrorism financing, and other illegal corruption schemes. KYC process includes ID card verification, face verification, document verification such as utility bills as proof of address, and biometric verification. Banks must comply with KYC regulations and anti-money laundering regulations to limit fraud. KYC compliance responsibility rests with the banks. In case of failure to comply, heavy penalties can be applied. In the U.S., Europe, the Middle East, and the Asia Pacific, a cumulated USD26 billion in fines have been levied for non-compliance with AML, KYC, and sanctions fines the past ten years (2008-2018) - let alone the reputational damage done and not measured. According to the United Nations, criminals are laundering between $1.6 to $4 trillion annually (2 to 5% of global GDP). Stricter KYC/CDD processes are helping to stop that. KYC documents KYC checks are done through an independent and reliable source of documents, data, or information. Each client is required to provide credentials to prove identity and address . In May 2018, the U.S. Financial Crimes Enforcement Network ( FinCEN ) - added a new requirement for banks to verify the identity of natural persons of legal entity customers who own, control and profit from companies when those organizations open accounts. Bottom line: when a corporate company opens a new account, it must provide Social Security numbers and copies of a photo ID and passports for its employees, board members, and shareholders. What is eKYC? In India, Electronic Know Your Customer or Electronic Know Your Client, or eKYC, is a process wherein the customer's identity and address are verified electronically through Aadhaar authentication. Aadhaar is India's national biometric eID scheme. Why is eKYC so popular in India? It's because 99.9% of the adult population has a digital identity in the country. In January 2023, 1,3 billion residents got their Aadhaar number. eKYC also refers to capturing information from IDs (OCR mode), extracting digital data from government-issued smart IDs (with a chip) with a physical presence, or using certified digital identities and facial recognition for online identity verification . Customer onboarding can then be done via mobile. eKYC (aka online KYC) is considered more and more feasible as its accuracy is improving by utilizing Artificial Intelligence (AI). eKYC, facial recognition, and digital account opening Banking is undoubtedly the area where facial recognition was least expected. And yet, it promises a lot. KYC onboarding with facial recognition online is a hot topic in 2021. Why? Covid-19 pushed customers and banks to rely more heavily on digital channels and apps. In the United States alone, 64% of primary checking account openings were done online in Q2 2020 ( and 36% in branches). And this is not going to change. A recent study from Visa and BAI showed that the trend would continue after the pandemic. Beyond that, increased mobile usage urges businesses to focus on mobile-first and develop fully mobile user-friendly onboarding experiences. During identification (a selfie), the software usually provides a liveness detection feature to avoid spoofing attacks using a static image. Liveness detection proves that the selfie taken comes from a live person. This type of KYC check is also used for cryptocurrency trading apps. The result? Financial institutions can invest in digital onboarding, including video KYC (video identification), and leverage biometrics through online and mobile channels to adapt to customer preferences. Authentication cloud services to secure access to digital banking Read more on authentication cloud service Anti-Money Laundering Directive In Europe, the fourth Anti-Money Laundering (AMLD4) directive entered into force in June 2017 with a new set of rules to help financial entities protect against the risks of money laundering and financing terrorism.​​ The enhanced version of the fifth AML directive (AMLD5), effective as of 10 January 2020, brought new challenges for financial institutions: Improve understanding of customers, beneficial owners of legal entities, and their financial dealings to minimize risk Stricter Customer Due Diligence (CDD) Control customer identity and share data with central administration EU member states must implement the directive within two years. ​​​ KYC process flow KYC and Customer Due Diligence measures The KYC policy is a mandatory framework for banks and financial institutions for customer identification . Its origin stems from the 2001 Title III of the Patriot Act , to provide various tools to prevent terrorist activities. To comply with international regulations against money laundering and terrorist financing, reinforced Know Your Customer procedures must be implemented in the first stage of any business relationship when enrolling a new customer. Banks usually frame their KYC policies incorporating the following four key elements: Customer Policy Customer Identification Procedures (data collection, identification, verification, politically exposed person/sanctions lists check) aka Customer Identification Program (CIP) Risk assessment and management (due diligence, part of the KYC process) Ongoing monitoring and record-keeping This involves verifying a customer's identity through documents, including a national ID Document with a document reader and advanced document verification software. From visual ID checks to digital verification For some, this is still primarily a paper-based check with KYC forms to fill out. See examples here. For others, it's a digital process that involves verifying that an identity document is genuine or even going further to authenticate the document holder through additional biometric checks such as facial or fingerprint checks. A digital ID verification process enables a bank to automatically capture customer demographic data, which can be integrated into enterprise systems like CRM to: streamline the customer onboarding process, conduct further due diligence and risk assessment, review for PEP s (Politically Exposed Persons). Financial institutions must also maintain records on transactions and Information obtained through Customer Due Diligence measures. These requirements should apply to all new and existing customers based on materiality and risk. Enhanced Due Diligence (aka EDD)  is a KYC process implementing a more profound analysis to provide higher identity assurance. Welcoming the Wallet What the new European Digital Identity Framework means for citizens, governments and businesses Learn more about eIDAS 2 and the EDIW KYC verification: Innovative approaches welcome In November 2018, US agencies, including the Federal Reserve , issued a joint declaration encouraging some banks to become increasingly sophisticated in identifying suspicious activity and experimenting with artificial intelligence and digital identity technologies. The European Supervisory Authorities promoted new solutions to address specific compliance challenges earlier in the year. They suggest retaining a common approach for consistent standards across the EU. They anticipate several types of control, such as «a built-in computer application that automatically identifies and verifies a person from a digital image or a video source ( facial biometrics )” or “a built-in security feature that can detect images that are or have been tampered with (e.g., facial morphing) whereby such images appear pixelated or blurred.” The use of biometrics can be challenged by local or regional regulations (GDPR in the EU, CCPA in California, to name a few). Read our web dossier on biometric data and data protection regulations. Mobile biometric authentication with Thales Gemalto Mobile Protector Read more on biometric authentication for mobile banking How can we help? With strong expertise in ID verification for governments, Gemalto supports private customers by providing a solution that helps them comply with the new rules, particularly those regarding CDD (Customer Due Diligence) and KYC obligations. ID Verification helps banks provide a smooth customer onboarding experience that complies with KYC regulations and minimizes fraud risk. Our solution automatically provides, in a matter of seconds: digital capture of customer information for instant auto-fill in enterprise data systems multichannel identity document verification with adaptable security levels the option of customer authentication using biometric technologies the option of customer risk assessment through the review of PEPs, sanctions or watchlists Our system uses the AI approach, where the system can learn from data. It's a central component of the latest-generation algorithms developed by Thales in its ID Verification systems. In short, you will rapidly increase your onboarding rate as the system learns and gets better constantly. More resources on AML/KYC FATF recommendations (as amended February 2023) The Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2020 ( FinCEN June 2021) Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018 ( UK ) KYC and eKYC in India: What is KYC as per RBI ? RBI Allows Video-based KYC yet (Money Life India January 2021) Video KYC for digital bank opening is growing in India (02 March 2021 - The Hindu ) Indian telcos demand Aadhaar-based e-KYC for verification charges to be reduced ( Financialexpress.com , 8 October 2020) Bank KYC updating: No Penalty on Indian Banks (Moneylife, March 2021) PPP, SMBs and the challenges of KYC ( payments.com ,16 October 2020) KYC compliance can be a competitive advantage ( cointelegraph.com , 6 October 2020) KYC and digital-first in banking (10 December 2021) More on biometrics and its contribution to identification and verification Facial recognition in 2023: 7 trends to watch Discover IdCloud KYC , Gemalto Advanced ID verification solution Trusted Digital Identity for Everyone Everything Everyday See our Digital ID vision Documents Single Vendor Approach to Banking Security Single Vendor Approach to Banking Security [PDF - 1.2mb] Everything you need to know about AML 5 The fifth Anti Money Laundering Directive (AMLD5) set a new set of rules to help financial entities protect against the risks of money laundering and financing of terrorism Download the infographic Get in touch with us For more information regarding our services and solutions contact one of our sales representatives. We have agents worldwide that are available to help with your digital security needs. Fill out our contact form and one of our representatives will be in touch to discuss how we can assist you. Please note we do not sell any products nor offer support directly to end users. If you have questions regarding one of our products provided by e.g. your bank or government, then please contact them for advice first.

---

risk scoring • 9 min read Best KYC software and tools Lenar Valk Business Development Manager Know Your Customer (KYC) involves understanding complex customer relationships to prevent unauthorised activity, including identity theft and fraud. KYC checks allow you to identify and verify your customers and follow global compliance practices. KYC checks are performed on new and potential customers when opening an account and periodically over time. With KYC software, you can get a better overview of your customers and reduce regulatory, financial and reputation risks. These days, it’s not just financial institutions that are required to perform KYC checks. More and more companies must protect their customers and business reputation. We made a list of the best KYC software providers to help you comply with KYC regulations and onboard customers while minimising risks to your business. This research is based on publicly available data including online user reviews. It reflects our individual opinions and aims to provide general information on the existing KYC software solutions. This is not a ranking: all solutions are presented in a randomised order. Salv – All-in-one AML Platform Veriff – AI-Powered Identity Verification Ondato – End-to-End KYC Management Quantexa – Contextual KYC Platform Fullcircl – Automated KYC & AML Platform Jumio – Online Identity Proofing and eKYC NorthRow – AML & KYC/B Onboarding Platform Onfido – AI-Powered Identity Verification Solution Trulioo – Automated Identity Verification & Compliance Togggle - Decentralised KYC Solution iDenfy – Identity Verification, AML, and KYB Solution What is KYC software? Many companies choose KYC software to meet legal requirements and create an environment that provides safety and accountability for their customers. KYC software enables companies to develop trust and establish competitive market strategies while adhering to global regulations. KYC software ensures that financial service providers and businesses operate robust policies and minimise the impact of money laundering, with consumer wellbeing in mind. Features of KYC software Your choice of KYC software should be based on the balance between compliance and good customer experience. Consider in your comparison the following features: Identity verification to analyse digital footprints and better understand who your customers are Document verification to verify the validity of submitted documents and prove document ownership Customer onboarding to streamline the onboarding process and avoid application abandonment Anti-Money Laundering (AML) features to enhance compliance defences with customer and transaction screening and monitoring. Here is our selection of best AML software KYC software allows you to take advantage of the latest technology to overcome operational constraints, and reduce compliance workload and related costs. Best KYC software and tools Salv Salv is a RegTech company that delivers AML software for banks and fintechs, taking them beyond traditional approaches in compliance. Salv does not provide full KYC functionality, but it can save you a lot of time and money by weeding out fraudulent users and keeping your good customers safe. Salv Platform takes care of your customer and transaction screening and monitoring with real-time checks and easily configurable rules. Its one and only counterparty monitoring feature gives you visibility of all counterparties, including those who are not immediately flagged as suspicious. Salv Risk Scoring is a component of Salv Platform, designed to calculate customer risk based on KYC data and transactional behaviour. Best thing about Salv : The score produced by Salv Risk Scoring can give you a better understanding of your customer risk landscape. Risk scoring rules can help you detect potential issues and mitigate the risks. Salv’s risk scoring rules match the latest FinCEN & FCA guidelines and audit scenarios. Veriff Veriff offers leading-edge technology to simplify and streamline your KYC processes. By integrating AI functionality into its products, Veriff brings a new level of precision and transparency to the onboarding process, allowing you to quickly identify fraudulent activity and make necessary changes. Veriff’s automated and customer-focused approach delivers clear benefits to consumers and businesses, proved by higher fraud prevention rates and faster conversions of valuable customers. Best thing about Veriff : You can secure customer accounts and convert more account holders with advanced facial recognition and assisted image capture technology. Veriff replaces legacy authentication practices and creates a safe environment for the consumer. Ondato Ondato provides a modular operating system for end-to-end KYC management and customer onboarding. A single dashboard view allows you to navigate through Ondato’s modules seamlessly: you can verify and onboard new customers, authenticate returning customers, and manage customer data. With Ondato, you can build a robust KYC platform by choosing modules that match your business needs. This approach can help you reduce operational workload and KYC-related business costs.
Best thing about Ondato: Ondato covers the full spectrum of compliance challenges, providing a central hub for AML/KYC compliance. The prices are quoted on the website – decide if it’s right for you before you book a demo. Quantexa Quantexa enables contextual decision intelligence to give you a better picture of your customers, optimise and automate compliance processes, and drive more intelligent decisions. Quantexa guides you with context, matching internal and external data points to detect hidden risks and enhance customer experience and operational performance. Best thing about Quantexa : Contextual Decision Intelligence (CDI) platform provides a connected view of data that facilitates a deeper understanding of KYC. Quantexa’s contextual approach takes you beyond direct risk identification and unlocks new growth opportunities while reducing time and cost throughout the KYC lifecycle. Fullcircl Fullcircl offers a customer lifecycle intelligence platform that maximises customer relationships and streamlines onboarding with automated KYC checks. The platform matches data points and enriches data to create deeper insights for your business. API-first approach allows you to seamlessly integrate Fullcircl solutions, automate manual processes and optimise KYC operations with an accurate and contextual view of data. Best thing about Fullcirl : Fullcircl transforms onboarding and reduces customer acquisition costs with a higher level of automation and contextualised view of data. Sophisticated data-matching algorithms and visualisation methods can give you a good overview of potential business customers and partners in the UK and Ireland. Jumio Jumio helps you reduce inefficiencies in your onboarding process by offering a complete suite of identity verification, authentication, and AML solutions. With Jumio, you can build trust in your customers – trust which has commercial value. By carrying out enhanced identity checks, powered by Jumio KYX Platform, you create a safety net for your customers and your business. Best thing about Jumio : Jumio has been around since 2016 and has already processed over 1 billion transactions from over 200 countries. It offers integrations with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Azurian, Microsoft, Oracle, Okta, and more. Give it a try! NorthRow NorthRow is a leading provider of onboarding, customer remediation, and regulatory compliance services. You can optimise your customer onboarding and monitoring processes with NorthRow’s fully managed, low-tech service for enhanced due diligence. NorthRow is easy to integrate and easy to use. You can configure NorthRow to your requirements by using a single API solution. Best thing about Northrow : it brings together a powerful combination of AML and KYC services and tools, streamlining your transition to a better customer experience and faster growth. Onfido Onfido will guide you through the complex thickets of digital customer acquisition and identity verification solutions. Onfido connects your business with your customers in an authentic and genuine way, while helping you to maintain KYC and AML requirements in each of the regions where you operate. Best thing about Onfido : In 2022, Onfido launched its Real Identity Platform with the objective of making identity verification a more simple, intuitive, and intelligent process. Onfido’s Real Identity Platform combines trusted data sources, biometric verifications and fraud detection signals. Trulioo With Trulioo, you can automatically verify customers anywhere in the world, scale and grow your business while making sure it fits seamlessly into the local verification ecosystem. Best thing about Trulioo : Trulioo provides one integrated platform that serves as a centralised gateway to online document verification, business verification, including AML/KYC checks on ultimate beneficial owners, and proof of address verification. Togggle Togggle offers a robust KYC solution to combat identity fraud and establish trust within the financial services sector. The platform promises a seamless user experience, boasting a user base of 250,000 verified individuals and facilitating instant onboarding through a one-click KYC process. Best thing about Togggle : It includes decentralised storage, which reduces the risk of data breaches compared to centralised verification systems. The service is designed to be compliance-ready, staying ahead of the latest regulations, which allows businesses to concentrate on growth and development while Togggle handles the complexities of KYC compliance and data management. iDenfy iDenfy , an anti-fraud and compliance company from Lithuania, is recognised for its identity verification, AML, and KYB (Know Your Business) solutions. The average score is 4.9 from a maximum of 5. The platform offers an identity verification solution with more than 3000 identity documents supported from 200 countries and territories. There is a direct integration for PEPs, sanctions, and adverse media checks with ongoing screening. Instead of charging per every identity session, the company chose a different route - clients pay only per approved customer, omitting denied verifications due to fraud, expiry, or bad image quality. With over 500 worldwide customers, including the Bank of Lithuania, iDenfy offers business verification with access to official credit bureaus for 160 countries and government-issued registry reports. Everything is integrated into a single platform with an option to generate reports required by auditors. How to choose KYC software KYC software comes in many shapes and forms. Some providers focus on identity verification and customer onboarding, while others emphasise contextualising data and enhancing the entire KYC lifecycle with data-driven insights. When choosing a KYC vendor, you want to ensure they can help you understand and manage customer risk, improve the onboarding experience, and handle regulatory compliance. You want to minimise fraud in the onboarding process, maintain a superior customer experience, and make it cost-efficient. There are a few more steps you can consider to make the process easier: Understand your company’s needs . Depending on your requirements, you may want to choose individual components like identity verification and biometric authentication. Or choose a more comprehensive end-to-end solution covering KYC and AML processes and ensure the integrity of your compliance program. Check the effectiveness of your KYC software . Test customer data, pay attention to the speed of manual reviews, and cross-check the results. This should give you a solid understanding of your vendor’s technology and ability to deliver tangible outcomes. Make sure the integration process doesn’t take too long . How soon will the system be integrated, and how long are you willing to wait? Make sure you can integrate and access your KYC software quickly, and reduce cost and time. Frequently Asked Questions about KYC software What is KYC? KYC means “Know Your Customer”. It describes the process of verifying customers’ identities and removing bad actors early in the onboarding process. KYC check is a mandatory step that involves assessing customer risk when opening an account and periodically over time to reduce fraud, corruption, money laundering, and terrorist financing. What does the KYC process include? The KYC process is based on identity verification and authentication, including digital ID document verification, face recognition, and biometric authentication. It’s not just financial institutions that must comply with KYC regulations – nowadays, the responsibility lies with companies across various industries. What are the components of an effective KYC framework? Customer Identification, Customer Due Diligence (CDD), and Enhanced Due Diligence (EDD) are the three components of an effective KYC framework. Together they add up to a multi-step process of collecting customer information from trusted sources, scrutinising it for inconsistencies, understanding the risks and responding effectively. While CDD provides tools to differentiate between lower and higher-risk customers, EDD provides measures to drill deeper into customer relationships, detect and thoroughly investigate potential wrongdoing. What are the benefits of KYC? KYC compliance prevents flagged individuals from taking advantage of the financial system and minimises disruption in the industry. When done right, it can positively impact your business reputation and credibility in the market, transforming relationships with your competitors and customers. KYC software is paramount to building an effective onboarding process and monitoring customer relationships for potential risks. It empowers you to make informed decisions and act on them. KYC software has many features to strengthen your compliance while unlocking opportunities for innovation and growth. It may or may not cover money laundering and fraud detection, which can be a deal breaker for regulated institutions. There are a multitude of options for you to consider. At the same time, you don’t have to choose one or the other and feel like you are missing out on something. Learn how our modular, customisable platform can fill in the gaps in your AML/KYC program and save you time – you won’t need to look for another provider again. Risk Scoring Know before you trust. Manage onboarding risks with Salv Risk Scoring Learn more Table of Contents What is KYC software? Features of KYC software Best KYC software and tools Salv Veriff Ondato Quantexa Fullcircl Jumio NorthRow Onfido Trulioo Togggle iDenfy How to choose KYC software Frequently Asked Questions about KYC software Share this story ×

---

KYC Automation: Everything You Need to Know | SEON Consent Details [#IABV2SETTINGS#] About This website uses cookies SEON and our partners use cookies to enable general website functions, remember your preferences, analyze interactions, and display relevant content and ads. By clicking [Allow all], you consent to these cookies and confirm that you've read and understood our Cookie Notice. Consent Selection Necessary Preferences Statistics Personalization and Marketing Show details Necessary 26 Necessary cookies make our website usable by enabling website functions. The website functions requested by you do not work without these cookies. Cookiebot 2 Learn more about this provider 1.gif Used to count the number of sessions to the website, necessary for optimizing CMP product delivery. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : Pixel Tracker CookieConsent Stores the user's cookie consent state for the current domain Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie Google 4 Learn more about this provider Some of the data collected by this provider is for the purposes of personalization and measuring advertising effectiveness. test_cookie Used to check if the user's browser supports cookies. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie _ga Registers a unique ID that is used to generate statistical data on how the visitor uses the website. Maximum Storage Duration : 2 years Type : HTTP Cookie _ga_# Used by Google Analytics to collect data on the number of times a user has visited the website as well as dates for the first and most recent visit. Maximum Storage Duration : 2 years Type : HTTP Cookie _gid Registers a unique ID that is used to generate statistical data on how the visitor uses the website. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie LinkedIn 1 Learn more about this provider li_gc Stores the user's cookie consent state for the current domain Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie cdn.seon.io 1 cookietest This cookie is used to determine if the visitor has accepted the cookie consent box. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie demo.arcade.software 1 sentry-offline#queue Detects and logs potential errors on third-party provided functions on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : IndexedDB g2.com g2crowd.com hsforms.com vimeo.com workable.com 7 __cf_bm [x7] This cookie is used to distinguish between humans and bots. This is beneficial for the website, in order to make valid reports on the use of their website. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie hsforms.com vimeo.com 3 _cfuvid [x3] This cookie is a part of the services provided by Cloudflare - Including load-balancing, deliverance of website content and serving DNS connection for website operators. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie seon.io 3 __mp_opt_in_out_# Stores the user's cookie consent state for the current domain Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie debug This cookie is used to detect errors on the website - this information is sent to the website's support staff in order to optimize the visitor's experience on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage wpEmojiSettingsSupports This cookie is part of a bundle of cookies which serve the purpose of content delivery and presentation. The cookies keep the correct state of font, blog/picture sliders, color themes and other website settings. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage www.g2.com 3 datadome Used in context with the website's BotManager. The BotManager detects, categorizes and compiles reports on potential bots trying to access the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie AWSALB Registers which server-cluster is serving the visitor. This is used in context with load balancing, in order to optimize user experience. Maximum Storage Duration : 7 days Type : HTTP Cookie AWSALBCORS Registers which server-cluster is serving the visitor. This is used in context with load balancing, in order to optimize user experience. Maximum Storage Duration : 7 days Type : HTTP Cookie x.clearbitjs.com 1 pfjs%3Acookies Used to check if the user's browser supports cookies. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie Preferences 2 Preferences cookies enable our website to remember information that changes the way the website behaves or looks, like your preferred language or the region that you are in. Acast 1 Learn more about this provider AcastLang This cookie is used to determine the preferred language of the visitor and sets the language accordingly on the website, if possible. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage Hubspot 1 Learn more about this provider messagesUtk Stores a unique ID string for each chat-box session. This allows the website-support to see previous issues and reconnect with the previous supporter. Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie Statistics 17 Statistics cookies help us to understand how you interact with and use our website by collecting and reporting statistical or analytics information. G2Crowd 1 Learn more about this provider g2tracking Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage Google 1 Learn more about this provider Some of the data collected by this provider is for the purposes of personalization and measuring advertising effectiveness. _gat Used by Google Analytics to throttle request rate Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie Hotjar 4 Learn more about this provider hjActiveViewportIds This cookie contains an ID string on the current session. This contains non-personal information on what subpages the visitor enters – this information is used to optimize the visitor's experience. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage hjViewportId Saves the user's screen size in order to adjust the size of images on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage _hjSession_# Collects statistics on the visitor's visits to the website, such as the number of visits, average time spent on the website and what pages have been read. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie _hjSessionUser_# Collects statistics on the visitor's visits to the website, such as the number of visits, average time spent on the website and what pages have been read. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie Hubspot 4 Learn more about this provider __hssc Identifies if the cookie data needs to be updated in the visitor's browser. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie __hssrc Used to recognise the visitor's browser upon reentry on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie __hstc Sets a unique ID for the session. This allows the website to obtain data on visitor behaviour for statistical purposes. Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie hubspotutk Sets a unique ID for the session. This allows the website to obtain data on visitor behaviour for statistical purposes. Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie Workable 1 Learn more about this provider wmc Used to track which users have shown interest in what job postings. The cookie ensures that the most relevant job postings are shown to the specific user. Maximum Storage Duration : 400 days Type : HTTP Cookie demo.arcade.software 2 ajs_anonymous_id This cookie is used to count how many times a website has been visited by different visitors - this is done by assigning the visitor an ID, so the visitor does not get registered twice. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage ajs_anonymous_id This cookie is used to identify a specific visitor - this information is used to identify the number of specific visitors on a website. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie g2.com 1 _g2_session_id Sets a unique ID for the session. This allows the website to obtain data on visitor behaviour for statistical purposes. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie seon.io 1 signup-statistics-data Pending Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage www.g2.com 1 events_distinct_id Sets a unique ID for the session. This allows the website to obtain data on visitor behaviour for statistical purposes. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie x.clearbitjs.com 1 cb%3Atest Collects data on the user's visits to the website, such as the number of visits, average time spent on the website and what pages have been loaded with the purpose of generating reports for optimising the website content. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie Personalization and Marketing 44 Personalization and Marketing cookies are used to track you on our website or across websites and devices, and to display you content and ads that are relevant and engaging for you on our websites or third-party websites, including on social media. Google 4 Learn more about this provider Some of the data collected by this provider is for the purposes of personalization and measuring advertising effectiveness. IDE Used by Google DoubleClick to register and report the website user's actions after viewing or clicking one of the advertiser's ads with the purpose of measuring the efficacy of an ad and to present targeted ads to the user. Maximum Storage Duration : 400 days Type : HTTP Cookie NID Registers a unique ID that identifies a returning user's device. The ID is used for targeted ads. Maximum Storage Duration : 6 months Type : HTTP Cookie pagead/1p-user-list/# Tracks if the user has shown interest in specific products or events across multiple websites and detects how the user navigates between sites. This is used for measurement of advertisement efforts and facilitates payment of referral-fees between websites. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : Pixel Tracker _gcl_au Used by Google AdSense for experimenting with advertisement efficiency across websites using their services. Maximum Storage Duration : 3 months Type : HTTP Cookie Hubspot 1 Learn more about this provider __ptq.gif Sends data to the marketing platform Hubspot about the visitor's device and behaviour. Tracks the visitor across devices and marketing channels. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : Pixel Tracker LinkedIn 2 Learn more about this provider bcookie Used by the social networking service, LinkedIn, for tracking the use of embedded services. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie lidc Used by the social networking service, LinkedIn, for tracking the use of embedded services. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie Twitter Inc. 2 Learn more about this provider i/jot/embeds Sets a unique ID for the visitor, that allows third party advertisers to target the visitor with relevant advertisement. This pairing service is provided by third party advertisement hubs, which facilitates real-time bidding for advertisers. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : Pixel Tracker RichHistory Collects data on visitors' preferences and behaviour on the website - This information is used make content and advertisement more relevant to the specific visitor. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage YouTube 23 Learn more about this provider #-# Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage __Secure-ROLLOUT_TOKEN Pending Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie iU5q-!O9@$ Registers a unique ID to keep statistics of what videos from YouTube the user has seen. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage LAST_RESULT_ENTRY_KEY Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie LogsDatabaseV2:V#||LogsRequestsStore Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : IndexedDB nextId Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie remote_sid Necessary for the implementation and functionality of YouTube video-content on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie requests Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie ServiceWorkerLogsDatabase#SWHealthLog Necessary for the implementation and functionality of YouTube video-content on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : IndexedDB TESTCOOKIESENABLED Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie VISITOR_INFO1_LIVE Tries to estimate the users' bandwidth on pages with integrated YouTube videos. Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie YSC Registers a unique ID to keep statistics of what videos from YouTube the user has seen. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie yt.innertube::nextId Registers a unique ID to keep statistics of what videos from YouTube the user has seen. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage ytidb::LAST_RESULT_ENTRY_KEY Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage YtIdbMeta#databases Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : IndexedDB yt-player-user-settings Pending Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-cast-available Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-cast-installed Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-connected-devices Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-device-id Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-fast-check-period Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-session-app Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-session-name Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage demo.arcade.software 2 ajs_user_id This cookie is used to collect data on the visitor's behavior on the website - this information can be used to assign the visitor to a visitor segment, based on common preferences. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie ajs_user_id Collects data on visitors' preferences and behaviour on the website - This information is used make content and advertisement more relevant to the specific visitor. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage demo.arcade.software x.clearbitjs.com 3 __tld__ [x3] Used to track visitors on multiple websites, in order to present relevant advertisement based on the visitor's preferences. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie seon.io 2 __mpq_#_# Collects data on user behaviour and interaction in order to optimize the website and make advertisement on the website more relevant. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage mp_#_mixpanel Pending Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie tag.clearbitscripts.com 2 cb_group_properties Collects data on visitor behaviour from multiple websites, in order to present more relevant advertisement - This also allows the website to limit the number of times that they are shown the same advertisement. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage cb_user_traits Collects data on visitor behaviour from multiple websites, in order to present more relevant advertisement - This also allows the website to limit the number of times that they are shown the same advertisement. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage x.clearbitjs.com 3 cb_anonymous_id Collects data on visitor behaviour from multiple websites, in order to present more relevant advertisement - This also allows the website to limit the number of times that they are shown the same advertisement. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie cb_group_id Collects data on visitors. This information is used to assign visitors into segments, making website advertisement more efficient. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie cb_user_id Collects data on visitor behaviour from multiple websites, in order to present more relevant advertisement - This also allows the website to limit the number of times that they are shown the same advertisement. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie Functional 3 Functional cookies are used to ensure the proper functioning of our website. cdn.seon.io 3 inersc2a2k Pending Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage f3k2kqs7xc Pending Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie ytkufm9oaz#ytkufm9oaz Pending Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : IndexedDB Cross-domain consent [#BULK_CONSENT_DOMAINS_COUNT#] [#BULK_CONSENT_TITLE#] List of domains your consent applies to: [#BULK_CONSENT_DOMAINS#] Cookie declaration last updated on 12/4/24 by Cookiebot [#IABV2_TITLE#] [#IABV2_BODY_INTRO#] [#IABV2_BODY_LEGITIMATE_INTEREST_INTRO#] [#IABV2_BODY_PREFERENCE_INTRO#] [#IABV2_LABEL_PURPOSES#] [#IABV2_BODY_PURPOSES_INTRO#] [#IABV2_BODY_PURPOSES#] [#IABV2_LABEL_FEATURES#] [#IABV2_BODY_FEATURES_INTRO#] [#IABV2_BODY_FEATURES#] [#IABV2_LABEL_PARTNERS#] [#IABV2_BODY_PARTNERS_INTRO#] [#IABV2_BODY_PARTNERS#] Scope . This cookie notice (“Cookie Notice”) provides you with information on how SEON Technologies Kft. (“SEON” or “we”) and our social media advertising, analytics, etc. partners use cookies on seon.io and docs.seon.io. Cookies . Cookies are small text files that are sent to your device by the browser upon request of the websites. When this notice mentions cookies it should be understood to include similar technologies (e.g. pixel tags, web beacons, local storage, etc.). The cookies that we provide or set on your device while you are visiting our websites are called first party cookies. The cookies that our partners provide or set on your device are third party cookies. Each cookie lasts for a different period of time. Session cookies will last only while your browser is open. When you close the browser, this cookie will be deleted automatically. Persistent cookies will survive even after closing the browser. For example, we will recognize your device via these cookies when you open the browser again. Further information about cookies. Learn more about the purposes of cookies, the duration of the operation of cookies, our social media, advertising, analytics, etc. partners that use cookies on our websites under “Details”. Data collected about you. We and our partners process the cookie ID and related data such as information about your device, the functioning of our website, your preferences etc. Please note that normally we are not able to identify you based on these data, therefore they are normally not considered personal data. If, on the basis of specific circumstances, we are able to identify you based on these data, we inform you that we process your personal data in accordance with our Privacy Notice. Recipients . SEON shares the cookie ID and related data with the following recipients: cloud providers, customer relationship management (CRM) providers, integration tool providers, instant messaging providers, video conferencing tool providers, UI/UX tool providers, social media providers, online advertising platforms and agencies, marketing and analytics tools providers. For further information about our data sharing practices please see our Privacy Notice. Your choices. We use “Functionality and Preferences”, “Personalization and Marketing” and “Statistics” cookies on the basis of you consent. You can at any time, provide, change or withdraw your consent from these cookies under “Details”. Please note that our use of “Necessary” cookies is not subject to your consent, we use them by default, as without these cookies, our website functions requested by you do not work. Device fingerprinting. We use device fingerprinting technology for ensuring information security of our services and for preventing frauds. For further information please see our Privacy Notice. Further information about our privacy practices. Our Privacy Notice complements this Cookie Notice. Learn more about who we are, how you can contact us or our data protection officer, how we process personal data, what  are your rights regarding your personal data, and what are our data protection and privacy practices in our Privacy Notice. Do not sell or share my personal information Reject Allow selection Customize Allow all Menu Close Products Fraud Digital Footprint Understand your customers’ online presence using email, phone and IP data Device Intelligence Analyze and track device and behavioral biometric data patterns AI & Machine Learning Deploy transparent rules to prevent evolving fraud patterns in real time AML Compliance Customer Screening & Monitoring Simplify compliance with an integrated AML and fraud platform Case Management Eliminate manual processes and fragmented tools to achieve faster, more efficient investigations Integrations Shopify Seamlessly integrate fraud prevention into your Shopify store AWS Integrate Fraud Prevention Seamlessly with SEON’s AWS Partnership Solutions Industries Financial Services Safeguard your customers from fraud at every step, from onboarding to transaction monitoring Fintech Scale and onboard new customers with confidence Payments Block fraudulent transactions in real time iGaming Eliminate iGaming threats without sacrificing player experience Retail Reduce chargebacks & stop e-commerce fraud Use Cases Bonus Abuse Block bonus abuse before it begins Fake & Synthetic IDs Detect suspicious users upfront Account Takeover Block unauthorized access before it impacts your customers AI Automation Detect fraud patterns that human eyes can’t Registration & Onboarding Onboard the right customers quickly and without friction Login & Activity Monitoring Keep customers and your business safe Transaction Monitoring Stay compliant and protect honest customers with real-time monitoring Case Studies Resources Fraud & Risk Managers Articles Stay informed on the latest fraud and risk prevention insights Guides Access practical guides to strengthen fraud and risk detection Case Studies Discover success stories from the world’s most innovative companies Comparisons Compare fraud and risk software solutions Events Meet up with our experts at an industry conference Webinars Learn from industry leaders to gain practical insights Dictionary Understand essential fraud and risk industry terms All Resources Explore the full resource library Developers Integration Guide Easily integrate by following a detailed step-by-step guide API Documentation Integrate quickly using one API Technical Knowledge Base Learn more about SEON and how to optimize your setup Github Access our open-source fraud prevention tools Company Company About Us Learn about our mission and team Contact Us Get in touch with our experts Careers Join our team News Latest updates in fraud prevention Mediaroom Read the latest SEON news and media stories Partners Partners Become a SEON partner Pricing Speak with an expert Login Article KYC Automation: Everything You Need to Know Know Your Customer mandates are set in place to help prevent money laundering that ends up financing terrorism, organized crime, and other potentially illicit activities. By verifying the true identity of online users, companies should be able to preclude such malicious business from occurring in their domains. There are certain verticals that have to adhere to these mandates or risk incurring massive fines and the accompanying reputational damage they bring. Thus, companies that fall within the mandated perimeter — namely money services, banks, gambling operators, cryptocurrencies, and real — should be doing their due diligence both to their applicable legal jurisdictions, as well as to their customers. Striking the correct balance between profitability and KYC compliance poses an ongoing challenge for these sectors. KYC automation is one method that drastically cuts down on both friction and on the time and resources needed to comply with protocols. SEON explores. What is KYC Automation? KYC automation is when software is used to efficiently handle the information gathering and document review aspects of the Know Your Customer process, reducing the need for manual oversight. For companies that fall within the perimeter of industries that need to conduct KYC, some degree of automation will be an essential part of an efficient and low-friction user onboarding process. The protocols for compliant KYC practices generally do not stray from: ascertain the identity of your customer and verify with official IDs assess the risk of the verified identity maintain accurate and up-to-date user profiles There are many solutions to automating the above process, including some that automate the collection of ID support documents, including ID cards, passports, as well as documents associated with more hardened KYC processes, such as proof of income documents and bills. Notably, the Anti-Money Laundering process is closely related to the KYC (know your customer) onboarding , but AML is more concerned with what the KYC-verified persons do with their transactions, to further prevent the likelihood of money laundering. Manual vs Automated KYC When a manual KYC systems’ ability to perform Know Your Customer checks is compared to that of an automated KYC system, it is clear that manual KYC is restricted by some human limitations around accuracy, productivity, workload management – and, in some cases, even around ethics. Let’s take a quick glance at some of the fundamental differences between manual KYC and automated KYC: Manual KYC Automated KYC time-consuming time-saving intuitive systematic a conscious process an algorithmic process paid for by hiring staff paid for by deploying software improves mainly by having the right workforce and timescale improves mainly by being scalable and regularly updated Let’s now consider a core part of automated KYC: automated document processing. This is central to both manual and automated KYC, but when such processing is used in the context of automated KYC, it is more accurate to call it automated document processing. Learn How SEON Can Help Your Business Make the Most of its KYC SEON helps its customers by offering them the tools that can enhance their KYC checks. Read SEON’s take on the best KYC software tools. Read more In the context of automated KYC, automated document processing uses automatic systems such as OCR (optical character recognition) scanning – and, in more advanced cases, machine learning algorithms – to extract customer information from governmental papers and other official documents. It then inputs the data into the relevant system, such as an organization’s database. This use of computer software to do the otherwise labor-intensive and error-prone – even error- filled – job of manual KYC checks is a key reason why automated KYC is increasingly becoming a more attractive approach to administering Know Your Customer checks. The Benefits of KYC Automation KYC automation has many benefits which, put simply, are down to its scalability and the various ways that it reduces the time, money, and effort required to achieve a purely manual KYC operation. With this in mind, let’s take a look at three major benefits of KYC automation. It Has a Symbiotic Relationship with Manual KYC KYC automation and manual KYC are far from mutually exclusive: They can, and certainly should, be used in tandem. And the key to making this symbiotic relationship work is down to KYC automation being scalable, with humans being able to modify, supervize, and even tweak, any KYC automation checks that are met with doubt. As people and organizations utilize it more and more over time, people’s own learning experiences will further inform how both machines and humans can together expedite and improve the process of carrying out Know Your Customer checks. It Can Reduce Organizations’ Overheads on Administrative Staff Many organizations are set to benefit from the use of KYC automation because its scalability will reduce the need to hire administrative staff, particularly those in data entry positions. This does not guarantee that those human administrators’ jobs will be made redundant, either: Depending on the nature of each organization and its software, the increase in KYC automation may well provide staff, particularly customer support teams, with more opportunities to work alongside and supervise the work of KYC automation software. It Is a Deterrent to Fraudsters In the fight against fraud, there is no such thing as enough precautions. However, KYC automation, especially criminals’ knowledge of its increasing adoption, is a crucial factor in deterring fraudulent activity. When you consider that manual KYC was already a viable way to both deter and counteract fraudsters’ operations, the very existence of KYC automation offers a leap forward in fending off criminals with the use of modern and scalable layers of security. But note that there is a caveat, and that’s the fact that KYC automation systems are centralized. If fraudsters learn how to circumvent them, they may become less of a deterrent and more of a collective gateway. Learn How SEON Can Support Your KYC Partner with SEON and learn how its real-time data enrichment, whitebox machine learning, advanced APIs, and much more can help your use of KYC. Ask an Expert Primary Use Cases for KYC Automation KYC itself has many use cases, so it’s natural that KYC automation not only has the same use cases but outright expedites and streamlines them. Let’s take a look at primary examples of the many use cases of KYC automation: customer due diligence (CDD) enhanced due diligence (EDD) AML screening data enrichment age verification fraud scoring biometric authentication Again, while these use cases were already intrinsic to KYC checks long before KYC automation entered the scene, it is worth reiterating that such automation has nevertheless vastly increased the efficiency and effectiveness of how these legacy use cases can be carried out. On top of this, it may even become clear over time that KYC automation is able to introduce new use cases owing to its ability to process information in ways that humans cannot. Automate Your Customer Verification Process with SEON SEON’s customers who wish to automate their customer verification process can use the company’s software to help them detect potentially suspicious individuals. For example, SEON provides its users with a social media lookup function that can quickly identify the number of popular social media accounts that an online account is – or, more importantly, isn’t – signed up to. SEON can save its customers time and money on their KYC checks, even those checks that already use KYC automation, by automating your customer verification process. In fact, it is by doing so that SEON is equipped to weed out bad actors before they even reach your KYC checks in the first place! Sources Klippa : How KYC automation can transform your business AIMultiple : In-Depth Guide to KYC Automation in 2023 Nexus FrontierTech : How KYC Automation Is Transforming Client Onboarding Related Articles KYC Verification: How to Improve Your Process Age Verification KYB Share Share Share Table of contents What is KYC Automation? Manual vs Automated KYC The Benefits of KYC Automation Primary Use Cases for KYC Automation Automate Your Customer Verification Process with SEON You Might Be Interested In Previous Next Article Fraud is Not a Single Moment in Time: The Ongoing Battle Against Digital Deception Combat fraud with proactive strategies like continuous monitoring, machine learning, and smarter detection methods. Guide Collaborative Strategies for Mitigating Fraud Risks in Digital Banking Expansion As digital banking expands rapidly, especially in emerging markets, it faces not only the promise of growth but also a… Article A Look at Holiday Fraud Trends: Examining Volume, Types and Prevention Strategies In the lead-up to the fast-approaching and busy holiday season, we’ve been carefully analyzing customer data, as we do each… Article Integrating Fraud Insights into AML Investigations: Effective Approaches for Compliance Teams Integrating fraud insights into AML workflows streamlines compliance, reduces costs, and improves risk monitoring. Webinar The Evolution of KYC: Strategies to Lower Costs and Enhance Customer Experience This webinar will explore how adopting advanced pre-KYC processes can revolutionize customer onboarding, allowing digital banks, fintechs, and payment companies… Article Advanced AML Transaction Monitoring Rules for Fraud & Compliance Teams Read how SEON’s advanced AML transaction monitoring cuts false positives, detects threats, and ensures compliance with real-time, customizable rules. Article The Talk of SBC Summit Latinoamérica: Brazil’s High-Stakes Gambling Regulatory Landscape SBC’s Summit Latinoamérica brought together industry leaders, regulators and technology providers to discuss pressing issues and emerging opportunities in Latin… Case study iGaming Operator LeoVegas Uses SEON to Detect 10% More Fraud and Increase Analyst Efficiency LeoVegas uses SEON to cut manual reviews by 30% and improve fraud detection by 10%, ensuring scalable fraud prevention. Guide Onboarding Risk Reduction in Digital Banking Download our free guide to secure efficient digital bank onboarding and tackle evolving fraud risks. Take the First Step Toward Transformative Fraud Prevention “SEON significantly enhanced our fraud prevention efficiency, freeing up time and resources for better policies, procedures and rules.” Vladislav Notevskyi, Head of KYC, Soft2Bet Automate 95% of fraud checks Reduce fraudulent registrations by 90% Accelerate manual reviews by 90% Trusted by 5,000+ Global Organizations: Book Time With Our Experts Google Client ID First Name * Last Name * Business email * Company name * Country * Country Afghanistan Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Asia/Pacific Region Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory British Virgin Islands Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Canary Islands Cape Verde Caribbean Netherlands Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic Republic of the Congo Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic East Timor Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Europe Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern and Antarctic Lands Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kosovo Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau Macedonia (FYROM) Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar (Burma) Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island North Korea Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Islands Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Romania Russia Rwanda Réunion Saint Barthélemy Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands South Korea South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu U.S. Virgin Islands Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vatican City Venezuela Vietnam Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Åland Islands Job Title * Phone Number Please select all that apply * Fraud Prevention AML & Compliance Transaction monitoring White Glove Services How did you hear about us? * Just like you, we hate spam. We won't call you and we will only send you relevant emails, which you can opt-out of at any time. By signing up, you agree to our Terms Of Service and Privacy Policy . 4.7 4.9 Products Digital Footprint Device Intelligence AI & Machine Learning Customer Screening & Monitoring Case Management Shopify AWS Free Trial Use Cases Account Takeover Bonus Abuse Fake & Synthetic IDs Registration & Onboarding Transaction Monitoring Login & Activity Monitoring AI Automation Industries Financial Services iGaming Retail Payment Fraud Fintech Resources Articles Guides Comparisons Case Studies Events Webinars Dictionary Developers API Reference Knowledge Base Github Company About Us Contact Us Partners News Mediaroom Careers LinkedIn X Instagram Facebook Legal & Security FAQ API Status © 2024 Copyright SEON Technologies Ltd. ES EN

---

Home Blog Automated KYC Verification Guide: How to Fight Fraud & Improve Compliance 18 Sep 2023 11 min read in Business use cases Automated KYC Verification Guide: How to Fight Fraud & Improve Compliance Henry Patishman Executive VP, Identity Verification solutions at Regula Contents Introduction Why is KYC essential? Who must follow KYC requirements? Manual vs. automated KYC verification What are the benefits of automated KYC verification? How to choose a vendor for automated KYC verification Bottom line Subscribe Share this article As the financial services industry faces growing challenges from identity fraud, the importance of Know Your Customer (KYC) procedures is becoming increasingly critical. Recent findings from a global survey conducted by Regula and Sapio Research show that every fourth bank experienced over 100 identity fraud incidents last year, resulting in a median financial burden of over $310,000 . In response to this threat, 91% of firms are planning to increase their expenditure on identity verification in the coming years. In this article, we will discuss the vital role of automated KYC verification in combating fraud and enhancing compliance, ensuring a safer and more secure environment for businesses and their customers. Why is KYC essential? KYC plays a critical role for businesses for two main reasons. First, implementing effective KYC processes is essential for compliance with stringent global regulations, including Anti-Money Laundering (AML) requirements. Second, KYC helps protect businesses from fraud, reducing the risk of legal and financial consequences. In this section, we'll delve into both aspects in greater detail to understand their importance. Regulatory compliance The need for implementing KYC became more pronounced after the events of 9/11 in the U.S., and similar regulations continue to be enacted and enforced in various countries. In 2022, global anti-money laundering fines surged by 50% , totaling almost $55 billion. The largest fine that year was imposed on Danske Bank A/S, a global financial institution headquartered in Denmark. Danske Bank pleaded guilty and agreed to forfeit $2 billion to resolve the investigation. KYC is mandatory in the Banking and Fintech sectors, and there is ongoing work by many regulators to apply KYC requirements to other industries. The crypto industry, which used to be considered a bastion of privacy, is now yet another sphere where KYC requirements have been mandated. Non-compliance can result in penalties, activity bans, or even criminal prosecution. Fraud prevention KYC is essential for businesses, not only in order to maintain regulatory compliance, but also to reduce the risk of fraud, which can have significant financial consequences. A global survey conducted by Regula revealed that 26% of banks reported over 100 identity fraud incidents in the past year, with a financial burden of $479,000 or more for 31% of banking organizations. Emerging threats, such as deepfake video fraud, are also a growing concern, with 79% of leaders believing they pose a real danger to their businesses. Additionally, 80% of finance and technology businesses now deal with more verification cases involving foreign documents, highlighting the need for comprehensive and adaptable processes to handle the increasing complexity of cross-border transactions. In fact, 91% of organizations worldwide plan to increase their spending on identity verification in the next three years. That figure proves the importance of investing in effective KYC processes to combat the growing threat of identity fraud and its financial implications. Who must follow KYC requirements? Here are some of the industries that commonly use KYC: Banking and finance: Financial institutions are required by law to comply with KYC regulations to prevent money laundering and financing of terrorism. E-commerce and online marketplaces: Online retailers and marketplaces often use KYC to verify the identity of their customers and prevent fraudulent transactions. Cryptocurrency and blockchain: The decentralized and anonymous nature of cryptocurrency transactions has led to the development of KYC procedures to prevent illegal activities. (If you would like to learn more about the subject, we’ve published a comprehensive guide on KYC requirements in crypto .) Gaming and gambling: The gaming and gambling industry uses KYC to verify the age and identity of their customers and prevent underage gambling . Insurance: Insurance companies use KYC to verify the identity of their customers and assess the risks associated with insuring them. Real estate: Real estate companies use KYC to verify the identity of their clients and prevent money laundering in real estate transactions. Overall, any industry that involves financial transactions or the transfer of money is likely to use KYC procedures to protect against fraudulent activities. Non-compliance can result in penalties, activity bans, or even criminal prosecution. Manual vs. automated KYC verification There are two distinct primary approaches to conducting KYC checks: manual and automated. A mixture of the two is often utilized; however, let’s focus on each one separately. Both approaches follow a similar flow, but differ in implementation and effectiveness. As businesses face more stringent regulations and growing market demands, the choice between manual and automated KYC becomes increasingly important. Manual KYC checks Manual KYC checks involve human intervention to verify customers' identities and gather necessary information. This approach is still prevalent, especially among smaller businesses, for whom manual KYC may be sufficient. Manual KYC processes generally include the following steps: A customer visits the office. An employee requests the customer to fill out a form, providing essential information such as name(s), address(es), and identification number(s). Alternatively, the employee may enter the data directly into the system while the customer waits patiently. The employee verifies the data by examining the submitted documents and checking their authenticity. The customer is checked against watchlists or databases to identify potential risks, ensuring they are not involved in any illicit activities. The employee monitors the customer's activity to detect suspicious transactions, enabling timely intervention and reporting when necessary. Manual KYC has several disadvantages: Manual data entry: Manual data entry is prone to human error, which can lead to inaccuracies and potential compliance issues. High costs: A manual KYC process can be expensive, requiring significant resources and personnel to manage and maintain. Time-consuming: Manually verifying customers' identities can be a slow process, increasing the time it takes to onboard new clients. Negative impact on customer experience: Lengthy and cumbersome KYC procedures can frustrate customers, potentially leading to a loss of business. Technology quality and document database capacity: Traditional KYC methods may not have access to the most advanced technology and comprehensive document databases, making it harder to ensure thorough verification. High market demand and slow adaptiveness of software vendors: The rapidly growing market for efficient KYC solutions is outpacing the adaptiveness of some software vendors, leading to a gap between demand and the availability of effective tools. Human factor: Perhaps the most critical challenge in manual KYC is the human factor. People are susceptible to making errors, overlooking critical information, or even engaging in fraudulent activities. Some companies continue to rely on manual KYC processes. However, as regulations become more stringent and the need for greater efficiency increases, the adoption of automated KYC solutions is becoming essential, particularly for larger organizations and those in high-risk industries. What is automated KYC verification? Automated KYC verification means using advanced technology and software solutions to streamline the KYC process, making it more efficient, accurate, and cost-effective. By automating various steps of the process, such as identity verification, risk assessment, and ongoing monitoring, businesses can significantly reduce the time and resources required for compliance, while minimizing human error and enhancing the overall customer experience. A prime example of this shift towards automation is the case of UBS , a global financial institution. Previously, UBS required real-time video interviews to verify new customers, a process that was time-consuming and labor-intensive. By implementing automated KYC solutions, such as those provided by Regula, the enrollment process is now fully automated, available 24/7, and takes just a few minutes, with minimal action required from the customer. By embracing this technology, companies can not only ensure adherence to regulations, but also improve their overall efficiency and customer satisfaction. Automated KYC checks Automated KYC checks streamline operations, reduce costs, and ensure compliance by leveraging technology to perform the necessary steps. The global identity verification market is expected to grow from $9.5 billion in 2022 to $18.6 billion by 2027. So the trend toward automation is becoming ever more apparent. Automated KYC processes generally include the following steps: Collecting data /  ID document capture and verification: The customer either takes a photo of their identification document (if online), or an employee scans the document using a special document reader (if offline). Verifying documents: Advanced algorithms analyze the submitted documents and selfies to ensure their authenticity and validity. Verifying user identity / conducting biometric checks: The customer undergoes biometric verification by taking a selfie to confirm their identity. Then, a face matching procedure is performed in order to make sure the document belongs to its presenter, and a liveness check is performed to verify it’s a real person, not a simulation. Checking databases and watchlists: The customer is automatically checked against watchlists or databases to identify potential risks and ensure compliance with regulations. Ongoing monitoring of customer activity: Customer activity monitoring takes place after the onboarding process is complete, using machine learning and data analysis to detect suspicious transactions and maintain ongoing compliance. Some companies continue to rely on manual KYC processes. However, as regulations become more stringent and the need for greater efficiency increases, the adoption of automated KYC solutions is becoming essential, particularly for larger organizations and those in high-risk industries. What are the benefits of automated KYC verification? KYC automation offers numerous benefits that can significantly improve identity verification and compliance processes for businesses. Here are some of the key advantages of adopting automated KYC verification solutions: Reduced costs Automating the KYC process eliminates the need for manual data entry and reduces the time spent on repetitive tasks. This results in cost savings for businesses, as fewer resources are needed to manage and maintain the KYC process. Increased efficiency KYC automation streamlines the entire identity verification process, making it quicker and more efficient. Automated systems can process and analyze data faster than humans, leading to faster customer onboarding and a more efficient overall workflow. Scalability Automated KYC verification can easily scale with the growth of your business. As the inflow of customers, variability of documents, and number of transactions increases, automated systems can handle the additional workload without requiring significant increases in staff or resources. Better security Automated KYC verification employs advanced technologies, such as machine learning and artificial intelligence, to detect potential fraud and other risks more effectively than manual processes. This results in enhanced security and a reduced likelihood of financial crime. Enhanced customer experience Automating the KYC process reduces the time and effort required from customers, leading to a more seamless and user-friendly experience. This can result in higher conversion rates and increased customer satisfaction. Fewer errors Manual processes are prone to human error, which can have serious consequences for businesses. Automated KYC minimizes the risk of mistakes by leveraging advanced algorithms and data analysis techniques to ensure accurate identity verification and compliance. How to choose a vendor for automated KYC verification When selecting a vendor for KYC automation, it is essential to consider several factors to ensure the chosen solution meets your business needs and compliance requirements. Here are some key aspects to keep in mind: Multiple providers for each step vs. a one-stop shop Choosing between multiple third-party solutions and a single, comprehensive solution is an important decision. Integrating various sources and checks can lead to overcomplexity, difficult integrations, system overgrowth, and escalated risks of system failures. A single solution that covers major KYC milestones (e.g., ID verification) and is developed in-house by a reputable vendor, such as Regula, can offer better integration and easier maintenance. Checklist for security must-haves in a KYC vendor A reliable KYC vendor should have robust security checks, including: Automatic document type detection against a large database of supported IDs Verification of machine-readable zone (MRZ) check digits Validation of dates for correctness (issue/expiration date, presence of dates, etc.) Verification of ISO country codes (presence and correctness) Validation of document number format Validation and data extraction from the embedded RFID chip Utilizing a "zero trust to mobile" approach, which re-verifies the RFID chip on a server and ensures the chip hasn't been cloned or had its data tampered with Cross-comparison and lexical analysis of the obtained information: the SDK compares data from MRZ, visual zone text fields, RFID chip, and barcode data and reports any exceptions if they occur Automatic IPI presence check Hologram detection & verification Security image pattern check Learn about your partner's background When choosing a vendor, consider their background, history, partnerships, collaborations, and access to the latest knowledge and technologies. For example, Regula has 30 years of experience, supports 130 languages, and covers 247 countries, making it a trustworthy partner in the KYC automation field. Look for scalability and customization Choose a vendor that offers scalable and customizable solutions to help your business develop and grow at the desired pace and in preferred directions. Explore available integrations Opt for a vendor that provides easy integration options to streamline the maintenance and management of your entire solution. Evaluate the user experience The user experience (UX) is crucial, as advanced technologies won't lead to success if end users quit services due to overcomplexity. Select a vendor that prioritizes user-friendly experiences. Ask about the vendor's database size For robust KYC procedures, it’s essential to have a comprehensive document template database in order to ensure compliance with the highest standards and verify virtually any ID. This enables your business to access new markets quickly and adapt to changing regulatory requirements. Regula's extensive database of 12,000+ document templates guarantees that it remains a top choice for businesses looking for a reliable automated KYC verification vendor. Bottom line In conclusion, automated KYC verification is a powerful tool in the fight against fraud and the improvement of compliance across various industries. By leveraging automated solutions, businesses can significantly reduce costs, increase efficiency, enhance security, and improve customer experience. When choosing a KYC automation vendor, it is crucial to consider factors such as security features, scalability, customization, user experience, and the vendor's background. A reliable partner, such as Regula, offers a comprehensive and user-friendly solution that adapts to the ever-changing regulatory landscape. By embracing automated KYC verification, businesses can stay ahead of fraudsters, maintain compliance with regulatory requirements, and create a more secure and trustworthy environment for their customers. Turn Compliance into a Pleasant Experience Learn more Related articles Business use cases What Is an Age Verification System and Why Incorporate It Into Your Business Business use cases KYC in Crypto: What Every Crypto Service Should Know About It IDV basics Why Face Recognition Is the Next Big Thing in MFA IDV basics 9-Step Guide to Choosing the Best Identity Verification Software

---

Digital Process Operations Automate your KYC process in 10 easy steps Automating the identification and verification process of the KYC not only improves efficiency and accuracy but also enhances the CX by enabling a quicker and smoother onboarding process. October 26, 2023 3 minutes 30 seconds read Author Jesper Kristensen Associate Vice President, Digital Process Operations October 26, 2023 3 minutes 30 seconds read Share Automating the identification and verification process stage of the Know Your Customer (KYC) involves leveraging technology and data-driven approaches to streamline and enhance the onboarding of customers while ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements. Here are the ten key components to automating the identification and verification process: Document capture and recognition: Utilize Optical Character Recognition (OCR) technology to extract information from identity documents such as passports, driver's licenses and utility bills. Automated systems can accurately read and capture relevant data, reducing manual data entry errors. Data extraction and validation: Employ Natural Language Processing (NLP) algorithms to extract and validate customer information from the captured documents. The system can identify and verify crucial details like name, address, date of birth and other relevant data. Biometric authentication: Implement biometric verification methods, such as fingerprint, facial recognition and voice recognition, for identity verification. Customers can provide biometric samples via a secure online portal, allowing for a seamless and secure verification process. Database and watchlist checks: Integrate automated systems with databases and watchlists containing sanctioned individuals or entities. Automated checks can quickly verify if a potential customer appears on any regulatory watchlists, ensuring compliance with AML regulations. Identity matching and fraud detection: Utilize machine learning algorithms to compare the provided identification data with historical customer data, flagging any inconsistencies or potential fraudulent activities. This helps identify potential risks and suspicious activities. Electronic identity verification (eIDV): Leverage eIDV solutions that use advanced algorithms to verify the authenticity of identification documents. This involves verifying holograms, watermarks and other security features to validate the legitimacy of the provided documents. Database cross-referencing: Automatically cross-reference customer-provided information with various databases, credit bureaus and public records to verify accuracy and detect any discrepancies. This aids in creating a comprehensive and accurate customer profile. Customer consent and authorization: Implement automated consent management systems to ensure customers provide consent for the collection and verification of their data. Automated workflows can guide customers through the necessary steps and record their consent. Risk scoring and profiling: Utilize automated risk-scoring models based on the collected data to assess the risk associated with each customer. This helps determine the appropriate level of due diligence required and segment customers based on risk profiles. Integration with regulatory guidelines: Align the KYC automation with regulatory guidelines to ensure compliance with specific regulations. Regular updates and monitoring ensure the process complies with evolving regulatory standards. Automating the identification and verification part of the KYC process not only improves efficiency and accuracy but also enhances the customer experience by enabling a quicker and smoother onboarding process. Share Automating the identification and verification process of the KYC not only improves efficiency and accuracy but also enhances the customer experience by enabling a quicker and smoother onboarding process. Related Content Digital Process Operations January 12, 2023 Process mining: The stepping-stone on your digital transformation journey Learn more Digital Process Operations February 3, 2023 Connected finance: Expanding the precincts of experience Learn more Digital Process Operations March 10, 2023 Customer Identification and Verification (ID&V) – How to turn it into a competitive advantage Read more TAGS: Digital Process Operations Share On Copy link copied! More from
            Jesper Kristensen Digital Process Operations March 10, 2023 Customer Identification & Verification (ID&V) for KYC & Compliance Read more Digital Process Operations April 30, 2024 Navigating the Technological Frontier Read more Digital Process Operations February 8, 2024 How AI can amplify pKYC in financial services Learn more