Blog Understanding the End-to-End KYC Onboarding Process Sure, the world has grown more complex. But when it comes to meaningful, lasting client and customer relationships, first impressions ( KYB and KYC onboarding ) are a time-honored path to success. KYC (know your customer) onboarding is a compliance term used to describe the process of legally verifying the legitimacy of a client or customer’s identity. While the term KYC is often broadly used to describe onboarding for both individual customers and corporate clients, corporate onboarding requires broader and deeper ‘know your business checks’. We’ll discuss both in this article. Onboarding is the first interaction clients and customers have with your brand, so making sure they’re fast, smooth and seamless is important to keep customers from losing interest in your application journey. And as the regulatory consequences and fines of failing KYC and KYB onboarding checks are so large, it’s important to the smooth running of the rest of your business to get it right.. In this guide, we’ll explore the processes of both KYC and KYB onboarding, including their differences. We’ll explore their importance, the right kind of data you need to collect and how to improve your overall KYB and KYC process. How does KYB onboarding differ from KYC onboarding? If your customer is an individual, then you should perform KYC checks, but if they’re a business, then you should perform the onboarding KYB checks. However, it should not be assumed that these checks follow the same rules. Fintechs and other growing financial companies may begin to switch from targeting individual customers to corporate clients as they expand. But the data you need to collect to stay compliant can be far more complicated when conducting KYB checks compared to KYC. So, what are the differences between onboarding processes? What is the KYB onboarding process? KYB onboarding refers to the safe and compliant onboarding of corporate clients. By the end of the KYB onboarding process, you should know the legitimacy of a corporation’s financial activities, the source of their capital, AML risk and organizational structure. Here’s the information and data you need to know when conducting an onboarding KYB check: 1.Basic information Access things like company name, address, VAT/GST number and category. You should also obtain and verify the company’s legal identity and registration documents, including articles of incorporation, certificate of incorporation and business registration certificate. 2. Organizational structure Gather the full names, contact details, addresses and date of birth of your potential client’s point of contact then gather the same information on the legal representative, the rest of the C suite and any other Ultimate Beneficiary Owners. You can conduct this through verifying government-issued identification documents like passports and driver’s licenses 3. Banking information Collect information about the company’s source of funds, including financial statements, bank statements and tax returns. Then, monitor the client’s transactions for any suspicious activity including large transactions, unusual patterns or transactions with high-risk counterparties. 4. Risk Conduct a risk assessment that focuses on the risk of business activities in the jurisdictions your potential client operates in. If it’s a high-risk jurisdiction or a potential high-risk client, conduct enhanced due diligence checks. 5. AML compliance When onboarding, AML compliance policies must be adhered to. You can do this by conducting customer due diligence, ongoing monitoring, record-keeping and suspicious transactions reporting. What is the client onboarding KYC process? Customer or client onboarding KYC refers to the safe and compliant onboarding of individual customers. The client onboarding process for KYC is far simpler compared to KYB, but that doesn’t make it any less important. KYC is the mandatory process of identifying and verifying the client’s identity when, for example,  opening a bank account or subscribing to any kind of financial services. Here’s the information and data you need to know when conducting an onboarding KYC check: 1.Identification documents Collect and verify government-issued documents such as passports, ID cards or driver’s license to confirm the customer’s identity (depending on what is used most in the region.) 2. Address proof Obtain proof of your customer’s residential or business address, such as a utility bill or bank statement to ensure their address is correct. 3. Contact information Gather customers’ phone numbers and email addresses so you can be in direct contact with them if more information is needed. Digital onboarding for KYC checks are much faster, easier to complete, and efficient, so setting up your process digitally is vital to ensuring a smooth experience. Gathering the right KYC and KYB data can improve the onboarding process The overall aim of a watertight KYB and KYC onboarding process (for clients and customers) is to mitigate risk on your side and make a great first impression on the client and customer side. With the right client and customer data collected, you ensure: Faster, efficient onboarding By collecting the right kind of data upfront, you can supercharge the speed of your onboarding process. The time it takes to review and approve a client’s applications can be cut significantly compared to when you miss important information. Red flags are caught sooner You’ll be able to assess the risk associated with a corporate client’s business activities and identify any suspicious behavior much further up the line. So evidence of financial crimes, fraud, money laundering or terrorist financing are not missed. You remain compliant Failing regulatory requirements can lead to some pretty harmful business consequences. Collecting the right KYC data helps you avoid legal and financial penalties, as well as reputational damage and loss of customer trust. Customer experience is smooth Your clients will always appreciate a faster and more efficient onboarding process, so satisfaction will start on a high note and they are more likely to become loyal to your company. You’re able to scale faster Once you have established the right KYC data collecting best practices, you can onboard more clients quickly and efficiently, giving you more room to scale at a pace that suits you. Why do you need KYC, KYB and AML processes? The customer onboarding KYC, KYB and AML screening process is at the heart of reducing the risk of fraud at any company. You put a lot of effort into finding and establishing client and customer partnerships, and the consequences of a botched KYC or KYB check are greater than lost time. If your company is suspected at any level to be remiss in your AML, KYB or KYC onboarding obligations, you could be subject to a long and disruptive investigation process. Resources will have to be taken away from business-critical functions to comply. If found guilty, fines are usually in order, but you could also be restricted from local or global business activities, or (in extreme money laundering cases) imprisonment. You can avoid all of this with a strong policy for your business. Need help managing onboarding ? We know how to do this fast and efficiently across many countries and regions, and can scale up as you grow. Let’s Connect " * " indicates required fields Name * First Last Company Name * Business Email * Job Level * Job Level* (Select) C-level Executive Vice President Vice President Director Department Head Manager/Supervisor Vendor Management Phone Country * Country* (Select) United States Canada United Kingdom Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia, Plurinational State of Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo, the Democratic Republic of the Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kosovo Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Moldova, Republic of Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island North Korea Norway Oman Pakistan Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Barthélemy Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin (French part) Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten (Dutch part) Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands South Korea South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Türkiye Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Vietnam Virgin Islands, British Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe State * State* (Select) Alabama Alaska American Somoa Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Federated Micronesia Florida Georgia Guam Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Marshall Islands Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Datkota Northern Mariana Islands Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Palau Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas United States Minor Outlying Islands US Virgin Islands Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Province * Province* (Select) Alberta British Columbia Manitoba New Brunswick Newfoundland and Labrador Northwest Territories Nova Scotia Nunavut Ontario Prince Edward Island Quebec Saskatchewan Yukon Territories Comments * Consent (Unchecked) I consent to receive information on relevant content, products, and services from Concentrix. I understand that I can unsubscribe at any time either by using the unsubscribe link in marketing emails or by contacting the Concentrix Data Protection Office as outlined in the Concentrix Privacy Statement . By submitting this form we will process and store your personal data in accordance with the terms outlined in the Concentrix Privacy Statement . Δ Blog Understanding the End-to-End KYC Onboarding Process

---

Top 10 KYC Software & Tools for 2024 – Rated and Reviewed Consent Details [#IABV2SETTINGS#] About This website uses cookies SEON and our partners use cookies to enable general website functions, remember your preferences, analyze interactions, and display relevant content and ads. By clicking [Allow all], you consent to these cookies and confirm that you've read and understood our Cookie Notice. Consent Selection Necessary Preferences Statistics Personalization and Marketing Show details Necessary 26 Necessary cookies make our website usable by enabling website functions. The website functions requested by you do not work without these cookies. Cookiebot 2 Learn more about this provider 1.gif Used to count the number of sessions to the website, necessary for optimizing CMP product delivery. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : Pixel Tracker CookieConsent Stores the user's cookie consent state for the current domain Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie Google 4 Learn more about this provider Some of the data collected by this provider is for the purposes of personalization and measuring advertising effectiveness. test_cookie Used to check if the user's browser supports cookies. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie _ga Registers a unique ID that is used to generate statistical data on how the visitor uses the website. Maximum Storage Duration : 2 years Type : HTTP Cookie _ga_# Used by Google Analytics to collect data on the number of times a user has visited the website as well as dates for the first and most recent visit. Maximum Storage Duration : 2 years Type : HTTP Cookie _gid Registers a unique ID that is used to generate statistical data on how the visitor uses the website. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie LinkedIn 1 Learn more about this provider li_gc Stores the user's cookie consent state for the current domain Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie cdn.seon.io 1 cookietest This cookie is used to determine if the visitor has accepted the cookie consent box. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie demo.arcade.software 1 sentry-offline#queue Detects and logs potential errors on third-party provided functions on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : IndexedDB g2.com g2crowd.com hsforms.com vimeo.com workable.com 7 __cf_bm [x7] This cookie is used to distinguish between humans and bots. This is beneficial for the website, in order to make valid reports on the use of their website. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie hsforms.com vimeo.com 3 _cfuvid [x3] This cookie is a part of the services provided by Cloudflare - Including load-balancing, deliverance of website content and serving DNS connection for website operators. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie seon.io 3 __mp_opt_in_out_# Stores the user's cookie consent state for the current domain Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie debug This cookie is used to detect errors on the website - this information is sent to the website's support staff in order to optimize the visitor's experience on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage wpEmojiSettingsSupports This cookie is part of a bundle of cookies which serve the purpose of content delivery and presentation. The cookies keep the correct state of font, blog/picture sliders, color themes and other website settings. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage www.g2.com 3 datadome Used in context with the website's BotManager. The BotManager detects, categorizes and compiles reports on potential bots trying to access the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie AWSALB Registers which server-cluster is serving the visitor. This is used in context with load balancing, in order to optimize user experience. Maximum Storage Duration : 7 days Type : HTTP Cookie AWSALBCORS Registers which server-cluster is serving the visitor. This is used in context with load balancing, in order to optimize user experience. Maximum Storage Duration : 7 days Type : HTTP Cookie x.clearbitjs.com 1 pfjs%3Acookies Used to check if the user's browser supports cookies. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie Preferences 2 Preferences cookies enable our website to remember information that changes the way the website behaves or looks, like your preferred language or the region that you are in. Acast 1 Learn more about this provider AcastLang This cookie is used to determine the preferred language of the visitor and sets the language accordingly on the website, if possible. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage Hubspot 1 Learn more about this provider messagesUtk Stores a unique ID string for each chat-box session. This allows the website-support to see previous issues and reconnect with the previous supporter. Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie Statistics 17 Statistics cookies help us to understand how you interact with and use our website by collecting and reporting statistical or analytics information. G2Crowd 1 Learn more about this provider g2tracking Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage Google 1 Learn more about this provider Some of the data collected by this provider is for the purposes of personalization and measuring advertising effectiveness. _gat Used by Google Analytics to throttle request rate Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie Hotjar 4 Learn more about this provider hjActiveViewportIds This cookie contains an ID string on the current session. This contains non-personal information on what subpages the visitor enters – this information is used to optimize the visitor's experience. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage hjViewportId Saves the user's screen size in order to adjust the size of images on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage _hjSession_# Collects statistics on the visitor's visits to the website, such as the number of visits, average time spent on the website and what pages have been read. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie _hjSessionUser_# Collects statistics on the visitor's visits to the website, such as the number of visits, average time spent on the website and what pages have been read. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie Hubspot 4 Learn more about this provider __hssc Identifies if the cookie data needs to be updated in the visitor's browser. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie __hssrc Used to recognise the visitor's browser upon reentry on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie __hstc Sets a unique ID for the session. This allows the website to obtain data on visitor behaviour for statistical purposes. Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie hubspotutk Sets a unique ID for the session. This allows the website to obtain data on visitor behaviour for statistical purposes. Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie Workable 1 Learn more about this provider wmc Used to track which users have shown interest in what job postings. The cookie ensures that the most relevant job postings are shown to the specific user. Maximum Storage Duration : 400 days Type : HTTP Cookie demo.arcade.software 2 ajs_anonymous_id This cookie is used to count how many times a website has been visited by different visitors - this is done by assigning the visitor an ID, so the visitor does not get registered twice. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage ajs_anonymous_id This cookie is used to identify a specific visitor - this information is used to identify the number of specific visitors on a website. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie g2.com 1 _g2_session_id Sets a unique ID for the session. This allows the website to obtain data on visitor behaviour for statistical purposes. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie seon.io 1 signup-statistics-data Pending Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage www.g2.com 1 events_distinct_id Sets a unique ID for the session. This allows the website to obtain data on visitor behaviour for statistical purposes. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie x.clearbitjs.com 1 cb%3Atest Collects data on the user's visits to the website, such as the number of visits, average time spent on the website and what pages have been loaded with the purpose of generating reports for optimising the website content. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie Personalization and Marketing 44 Personalization and Marketing cookies are used to track you on our website or across websites and devices, and to display you content and ads that are relevant and engaging for you on our websites or third-party websites, including on social media. Google 4 Learn more about this provider Some of the data collected by this provider is for the purposes of personalization and measuring advertising effectiveness. IDE Used by Google DoubleClick to register and report the website user's actions after viewing or clicking one of the advertiser's ads with the purpose of measuring the efficacy of an ad and to present targeted ads to the user. Maximum Storage Duration : 400 days Type : HTTP Cookie NID Registers a unique ID that identifies a returning user's device. The ID is used for targeted ads. Maximum Storage Duration : 6 months Type : HTTP Cookie pagead/1p-user-list/# Tracks if the user has shown interest in specific products or events across multiple websites and detects how the user navigates between sites. This is used for measurement of advertisement efforts and facilitates payment of referral-fees between websites. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : Pixel Tracker _gcl_au Used by Google AdSense for experimenting with advertisement efficiency across websites using their services. Maximum Storage Duration : 3 months Type : HTTP Cookie Hubspot 1 Learn more about this provider __ptq.gif Sends data to the marketing platform Hubspot about the visitor's device and behaviour. Tracks the visitor across devices and marketing channels. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : Pixel Tracker LinkedIn 2 Learn more about this provider bcookie Used by the social networking service, LinkedIn, for tracking the use of embedded services. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie lidc Used by the social networking service, LinkedIn, for tracking the use of embedded services. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie Twitter Inc. 2 Learn more about this provider i/jot/embeds Sets a unique ID for the visitor, that allows third party advertisers to target the visitor with relevant advertisement. This pairing service is provided by third party advertisement hubs, which facilitates real-time bidding for advertisers. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : Pixel Tracker RichHistory Collects data on visitors' preferences and behaviour on the website - This information is used make content and advertisement more relevant to the specific visitor. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage YouTube 23 Learn more about this provider #-# Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage __Secure-ROLLOUT_TOKEN Pending Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie iU5q-!O9@$ Registers a unique ID to keep statistics of what videos from YouTube the user has seen. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage LAST_RESULT_ENTRY_KEY Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie LogsDatabaseV2:V#||LogsRequestsStore Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : IndexedDB nextId Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie remote_sid Necessary for the implementation and functionality of YouTube video-content on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie requests Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie ServiceWorkerLogsDatabase#SWHealthLog Necessary for the implementation and functionality of YouTube video-content on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : IndexedDB TESTCOOKIESENABLED Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie VISITOR_INFO1_LIVE Tries to estimate the users' bandwidth on pages with integrated YouTube videos. Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie YSC Registers a unique ID to keep statistics of what videos from YouTube the user has seen. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie yt.innertube::nextId Registers a unique ID to keep statistics of what videos from YouTube the user has seen. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage ytidb::LAST_RESULT_ENTRY_KEY Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage YtIdbMeta#databases Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : IndexedDB yt-player-user-settings Pending Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-cast-available Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-cast-installed Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-connected-devices Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-device-id Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-fast-check-period Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-session-app Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-session-name Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage demo.arcade.software 2 ajs_user_id This cookie is used to collect data on the visitor's behavior on the website - this information can be used to assign the visitor to a visitor segment, based on common preferences. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie ajs_user_id Collects data on visitors' preferences and behaviour on the website - This information is used make content and advertisement more relevant to the specific visitor. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage demo.arcade.software x.clearbitjs.com 3 __tld__ [x3] Used to track visitors on multiple websites, in order to present relevant advertisement based on the visitor's preferences. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie seon.io 2 __mpq_#_# Collects data on user behaviour and interaction in order to optimize the website and make advertisement on the website more relevant. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage mp_#_mixpanel Pending Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie tag.clearbitscripts.com 2 cb_group_properties Collects data on visitor behaviour from multiple websites, in order to present more relevant advertisement - This also allows the website to limit the number of times that they are shown the same advertisement. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage cb_user_traits Collects data on visitor behaviour from multiple websites, in order to present more relevant advertisement - This also allows the website to limit the number of times that they are shown the same advertisement. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage x.clearbitjs.com 3 cb_anonymous_id Collects data on visitor behaviour from multiple websites, in order to present more relevant advertisement - This also allows the website to limit the number of times that they are shown the same advertisement. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie cb_group_id Collects data on visitors. This information is used to assign visitors into segments, making website advertisement more efficient. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie cb_user_id Collects data on visitor behaviour from multiple websites, in order to present more relevant advertisement - This also allows the website to limit the number of times that they are shown the same advertisement. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie Functional 3 Functional cookies are used to ensure the proper functioning of our website. cdn.seon.io 3 inersc2a2k Pending Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage f3k2kqs7xc Pending Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie ytkufm9oaz#ytkufm9oaz Pending Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : IndexedDB Cross-domain consent [#BULK_CONSENT_DOMAINS_COUNT#] [#BULK_CONSENT_TITLE#] List of domains your consent applies to: [#BULK_CONSENT_DOMAINS#] Cookie declaration last updated on 12/4/24 by Cookiebot [#IABV2_TITLE#] [#IABV2_BODY_INTRO#] [#IABV2_BODY_LEGITIMATE_INTEREST_INTRO#] [#IABV2_BODY_PREFERENCE_INTRO#] [#IABV2_LABEL_PURPOSES#] [#IABV2_BODY_PURPOSES_INTRO#] [#IABV2_BODY_PURPOSES#] [#IABV2_LABEL_FEATURES#] [#IABV2_BODY_FEATURES_INTRO#] [#IABV2_BODY_FEATURES#] [#IABV2_LABEL_PARTNERS#] [#IABV2_BODY_PARTNERS_INTRO#] [#IABV2_BODY_PARTNERS#] Scope . This cookie notice (“Cookie Notice”) provides you with information on how SEON Technologies Kft. (“SEON” or “we”) and our social media advertising, analytics, etc. partners use cookies on seon.io and docs.seon.io. Cookies . Cookies are small text files that are sent to your device by the browser upon request of the websites. When this notice mentions cookies it should be understood to include similar technologies (e.g. pixel tags, web beacons, local storage, etc.). The cookies that we provide or set on your device while you are visiting our websites are called first party cookies. The cookies that our partners provide or set on your device are third party cookies. Each cookie lasts for a different period of time. Session cookies will last only while your browser is open. When you close the browser, this cookie will be deleted automatically. Persistent cookies will survive even after closing the browser. For example, we will recognize your device via these cookies when you open the browser again. Further information about cookies. Learn more about the purposes of cookies, the duration of the operation of cookies, our social media, advertising, analytics, etc. partners that use cookies on our websites under “Details”. Data collected about you. We and our partners process the cookie ID and related data such as information about your device, the functioning of our website, your preferences etc. Please note that normally we are not able to identify you based on these data, therefore they are normally not considered personal data. If, on the basis of specific circumstances, we are able to identify you based on these data, we inform you that we process your personal data in accordance with our Privacy Notice. Recipients . SEON shares the cookie ID and related data with the following recipients: cloud providers, customer relationship management (CRM) providers, integration tool providers, instant messaging providers, video conferencing tool providers, UI/UX tool providers, social media providers, online advertising platforms and agencies, marketing and analytics tools providers. For further information about our data sharing practices please see our Privacy Notice. Your choices. We use “Functionality and Preferences”, “Personalization and Marketing” and “Statistics” cookies on the basis of you consent. You can at any time, provide, change or withdraw your consent from these cookies under “Details”. Please note that our use of “Necessary” cookies is not subject to your consent, we use them by default, as without these cookies, our website functions requested by you do not work. Device fingerprinting. We use device fingerprinting technology for ensuring information security of our services and for preventing frauds. For further information please see our Privacy Notice. Further information about our privacy practices. Our Privacy Notice complements this Cookie Notice. Learn more about who we are, how you can contact us or our data protection officer, how we process personal data, what  are your rights regarding your personal data, and what are our data protection and privacy practices in our Privacy Notice. Do not sell or share my personal information Reject Allow selection Customize Allow all Menu Close Products Fraud Digital Footprint Understand your customers’ online presence using email, phone and IP data Device Intelligence Analyze and track device and behavioral biometric data patterns AI & Machine Learning Deploy transparent rules to prevent evolving fraud patterns in real time AML Compliance Customer Screening & Monitoring Simplify compliance with an integrated AML and fraud platform Case Management Eliminate manual processes and fragmented tools to achieve faster, more efficient investigations Integrations Shopify Seamlessly integrate fraud prevention into your Shopify store AWS Integrate Fraud Prevention Seamlessly with SEON’s AWS Partnership Solutions Industries Financial Services Safeguard your customers from fraud at every step, from onboarding to transaction monitoring Fintech Scale and onboard new customers with confidence Payments Block fraudulent transactions in real time iGaming Eliminate iGaming threats without sacrificing player experience Retail Reduce chargebacks & stop e-commerce fraud Use Cases Bonus Abuse Block bonus abuse before it begins Fake & Synthetic IDs Detect suspicious users upfront Account Takeover Block unauthorized access before it impacts your customers AI Automation Detect fraud patterns that human eyes can’t Registration & Onboarding Onboard the right customers quickly and without friction Login & Activity Monitoring Keep customers and your business safe Transaction Monitoring Stay compliant and protect honest customers with real-time monitoring Case Studies Resources Fraud & Risk Managers Articles Stay informed on the latest fraud and risk prevention insights Guides Access practical guides to strengthen fraud and risk detection Case Studies Discover success stories from the world’s most innovative companies Comparisons Compare fraud and risk software solutions Events Meet up with our experts at an industry conference Webinars Learn from industry leaders to gain practical insights Dictionary Understand essential fraud and risk industry terms All Resources Explore the full resource library Developers Integration Guide Easily integrate by following a detailed step-by-step guide API Documentation Integrate quickly using one API Technical Knowledge Base Learn more about SEON and how to optimize your setup Github Access our open-source fraud prevention tools Company Company About Us Learn about our mission and team Contact Us Get in touch with our experts Careers Join our team News Latest updates in fraud prevention Mediaroom Read the latest SEON news and media stories Partners Partners Become a SEON partner Pricing Speak with an expert Login Comparison Top 10 KYC Software & Tools Solutions 2024 What Is KYC Software? KYC software assists companies in meeting Know Your Customer (KYC) legal requirements. These requirements are clearly defined for certain industries, such as banking and financial products. These companies must rely on KYC software to learn more about their users. This is to prevent fraud and criminal activity, including money laundering and assisting terrorism, among others. KYC software will help you learn a user’s first and last name, as well as an address and an ID document. Top Features of KYC Software Before choosing KYC software, you should consider the following features: Frictionless data enrichment: This will let you know more about users without asking for official documents. The software analyzes digital footprints to give you an idea of who you are dealing with. Document verification : The software determines if the ID is valid, fake, or stolen. Different software has different data sources and methods for checking that information. Pay-as-you-go pricing: Ideally, you want your KYC software prices to scale along with your usage. There’s no point in spending thousands of dollars a month if you have a very low volume of applications. Anti-money laundering (AML) features: KYC software is often bundled with AML features. This may include looking at lists of Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs) or monitoring transactions over a certain threshold. The 10 Best KYC Software Solutions SEON Use Pre-KYC Checks to Save Money When it comes to digital footprint analysis, SEON is an incredibly helpful tool to help you glean your customers’ true intentions. SEON does not provide full KYC functionality – but it can save companies a lot of time and money spent on KYC by weeding out fraudulent users before they reach that crucial step. As a result, you will not need to spend money running KYC checks on demonstrably bad actors who would be rejected anyway. In addition to helping save resources, this boosts an organization’s fraud prevention efforts. Pros Check social signals Fast and frictionless Transparent pricing Also suitable for AML Cons No document check or biometric authentication No on-premise deployment SEON Pricing Starts at $599. Free version available with limited API calls. Choose SEON If You are concerned about your KYC costs and want to streamline the process. SEON’s tools give you insightful data points thanks to: Reverse phone lookup : Find all the red flags by checking whether the phone number exists, if it’s in the right country, and more. Reverse email analysis : Flag email addresses that don’t exist and spot suspicious free domains. Device fingerprinting: Learn which configuration of software and hardware the user relies on to connect to your site. Reverse digital profiling lookup: Check 90+ platforms and online networks for user data. All this data is fed through a powerful risk-scoring engine, which outputs a fraud score with clear explanations. This allows you to filter out junk users before the KYC stage, ask for additional information with medium-risk customers, and get more information for a manual review. SEON Pros Check social signals: SEON aggregates data from 90+ online platforms, including social networks, for user information – far more than any other KYC software tool. Fast and frictionless: Get results in split seconds via API. Transparent pricing: True software-as-a-service (SaaS) model with a free 14-day trial and cancel anytime contracts. Transparent pricing: Fully-featured free plan. Also suitable for AML: If you struggle with unifying your fraud management and compliance system, SEON has got you covered. SEON Cons No document check or biometric authentication: SEON is a pre-KYC filter or tool for extra info during a manual review. It is not a KYC solution, strictly speaking. No on-premise deployment: If you can’t use cloud-based KYC tools, SEON isn’t ideal. Read more Save Money on Your KYC Checks Leverage SEON to speed up KYC checks, save money on KYC, and flag suspicious users with behavioral analytics and a real time scoring engine. Speak with an Expert Onfido Leverage AI Liveness Verification What do companies such as Revolut, Remitly, and Bitstamp have in common? They all verify identities with Onfido. The company leverages its AI models to verify 2,500 kinds of ID documents in 195 countries. With Onfido, you’ll get liveness verification, biometrics analysis, and, of course, an AI system that will automatically accept or reject applications – with the added bonus of manual review for cases that fall within a grey area. Last but not least, Onfido is suitable for both KYC and AML checks thanks to its PEP screening and transaction monitoring features. Pros 2,500 document types KYC, AML, and anti-fraud Cons False positives More friction Onfido Pricing Available after a sales demo. Choose Onfido If You want to go above and beyond with the accuracy of your KYC and don’t mind friction. Onfido Pros 2,500 document types: Ondifo can verify ID documents from most countries. KYC, AML, and anti-fraud: You can perform all your compliance checks in one go, thanks to Onfido’s KYC and AML verifications. Onfido Cons False positives: As with most automated, AI-driven KYC checks, you’ll get the odd error – which can be frustrating for legitimate customers. More friction: While the liveness verification is effective, the risk of false positives and poor quality can add friction to the user experience. Read more Trulioo Enjoy Global Document Verification Trulioo (pronounced truly-you ) offers ID document verification by scanning its huge list of five billion identities in 195 countries. The company provides access to 11,800 types of documents, from driving licenses to residency permits. It’s ideal to meet KYC requirements and to check AML watchlists. All of Trulioo’s products, which also include business verification, are available via API integration. You can try the solution for free, then move up to the Growth plan (for KYC and AML checks only). The Enterprise plan includes business verification too. Pros Huge database Business verification Cons No data enrichment or risk scoring Trulioo Pricing No pricing is available online, but you have three options: a free trial, the Growth plan, or Enterprise (which includes business verification). Choose Trulioo If You have customers all around the world, and you need to verify their identity. Trulioo Pros Huge database: Probably one of the largest databases of IDs for KYC. Business verification: If you need to verify the identities of ultimate beneficial owners, Trulioo is suitable. That means Know Your Customer and Know Your Business (KYB) checks can be made from the same software. Trulioo Cons No data enrichment or risk scoring: Trulioo won’t be great for manual reviews or managing risk in other areas besides KYC. Read more Refinitiv Insights from Financial Data Analysts Refinitiv is an award-winning data analytics company specializing in keeping a large financial data catalog, which it can leverage for KYC and AML. When you integrate this solution, you get to choose the KYC model you need, including access to suggestions from hundreds of analysts worldwide who rely on 600+ sanctions and law enforcement watchlists. This makes Refinitiv a complete solution for both KYC and AML, with a specific focus on investment banking and asset management. Pros AML and KYC tools Human-vetted data Cons Pricing Refinitiv Pricing You have to contact the sales team for a quote. Choose Refinitiv If In addition to KYC and AML checks, you want to use its vast financial databases. Refinitiv Pros AML and KYC tools: Companies in finance and banking need their customers to pass both KYC and AML checks. You can do both with Refinitiv. Human-vetted data: One of Refinitiv’s strong suits is its data, aggregated from data analysts who pore over the latest watchlists for AML. Refinitiv Cons Pricing: A focus on top-tier financial institutions means you’re likely to get a higher quote. Read more KYC-Chain Employ Blockchain Tech for KYC KYC-Chain lets you verify identities, run Know Your Customer and AML checks and, perhaps more innovatively, leverage blockchain KYC. The latter is offered via its sister company, SelfKey, which allows users to store their KYC details on-chain. The company prides itself on its bank-grade compliance toolkit, which can scan more than 10,000 data sources in 240 counties with a response time of 30 seconds. At the time of writing, KYC-Chain claims to have helped more than half a million customers create accounts in various industries, such as telecoms, trading, and fund management. Pros Blockchain KYC Gaining traction in the crypto world Cons Developing tech KYC-Chain Pricing No pricing information is available online. Choose KYC-Chain If You want to demonstrate to the crypto community just how invested you are in it. KYC-Chain Pros Blockchain KYC: If you want to learn more about how a shared ledger can work for ID verification , KYC-Chain is a good place to start. Gaining traction in the crypto world: Crypto exchanges must go through KYC and AML checks. It looks like KYC-Chain has specific features for that market. KYC-Chain Cons Developing tech: A new technology requires mass adoption to be truly valuable, and blockchain KYC is still in its infancy. Read more Token of Trust Conduct Electronic ID Verification What do you do if you’re the victim of an online scam? Complain to the police? Boost your online security? For Darrin Edelman, the answer was to build a better KYC tool. This was exactly how Token of Trust was born in 2015. The Minnesota-based company now offers electronic ID verification as well as document scanning and age verification. The latter is particularly useful for companies in the adult or iGaming industry. Pros A complete suite of KYC tools Global KYC and AML coverage Cons Expensive Token of Trust Pricing Unavailable online. Choose Token of Trust If You’re in an industry that requires age verification and also want to conduct identity document verification (IDV) and biometric authentication. The company’s unique PACT Act compliance feature is also targeted to companies in the tobacco industry. Token of Trust Pros A complete suite of KYC tools: You’ve got identity verification, biometric authentication, and even age verification. Global KYC and AML coverage: Judging from online reviews, Token of Trust delivers excellent results in numerous markets worldwide. Token of Trust Cons Expensive: Token of Trust customers report that the company’s pricing is at the higher end of the spectrum. Read more ComplyAdvantage Get AML & KYC with a Free Plan ComplyAdvantage is another solution whose goal is to make compliance less painful. It offers customer screening and monitoring for KYC, but also transaction screening and media checks, making an ideal solution for all your AML needs. All the integration is done via APIs, and one of its key advantages is that you can try a free version if you’re a fintech startup or scale-up. For the sake of transparency, we should point out that Charles Delingpole, one of ComplyAdvantage’s founders, is a SEON investor. Pros Easy integration Free plan Ideal for KYC and AML Cons No data enrichment ComplyAdvantage Pricing Pricing is available upon request. The ComplyLaunch program gives fintech startups and scale-ups free access to some of ComplyAdvantage’s tools. Choose ComplyAdvantage If You are eligible for its free services for startups and want to leverage APIs for AML and KYC. ComplyAdvantage Pros Easy integration: Connect your system to ComplyAdvantage via well-documented APIs. Free plan: It’s rare to find KYC solutions with a non-paying (albeit limited) plan. Ideal for KYC and AML: PEP screening, adverse media checks… You’ve got all the tools needed to comply with both KYC and AML regulations. ComplyAdvantage Cons No data enrichment: You can verify identities but won’t be able to complete user profiles based on alternative data. Read more Ondato Leverage Biometrics for KYC If you need video ID verification and facial biometrics, Ondato should be on your radar. The Lithuanian company hopes that its KYC software is so frictionless that it will be close to enjoyable for your customers. It certainly seems to have its fans, as companies such as General Financing, Swedbank, and NFT Venture rely on its technology for both KYC and AML. Pros Full suite of KYC tools White label option Cons No data enrichment Ondato Pricing The lowest price is a $569 license per month, to which you must add $0.85 per verification. It is a sliding scale, though, and prices vary depending on whether you need to verify IDs only, or also check PEP lists, for instance. Choose Ondato If A full suite of KYC tools is what you require. Ondato Pros Full suite of KYC tools: It’s not just video verification with Ondato – you also get e-signatures, NFC verification, and biometrics, among others. White label option: You can hide the Ondato branding to reassure customers. Ondato Cons No data enrichment: It’s great for ID verification, but you can’t rely on Ondato for risk management. Read more Reduce Fraud Rates and Save on KYC Partner with SEON to reduce fraud rates in your business with real-time data enrichment, whitebox machine learning, and advanced APIs. Speak with an Expert Actico KYC for Traditional Finance Actico, which offers full digital transformation and decision automation products for some of the world’s leading financial institutions, also offers a complete compliance suite. It is designed specifically for AML, KYC, sanction list and PEP screening, and transaction screening. It also provides trade surveillance and even plays nicely with the renowned Avaloq Core banking system. Companies currently relying on Actico include Santander, Volkswagen Financial Services, and ING, among others, and there is a definite focus on traditional banking rather than, say, neobanks or challenger banks. Pros Powerful suite of compliance products Part of a larger business information (BI) ecosystem Cons Pricier product Focus on traditional financial institution (FI) tools Actico Pricing: Not available online. Choose Actico If You are a traditional financial institution needing KYC and AML compliance – especially if you rely on the Avaloq Core banking system. Actico Pros Powerful suite of compliance products : You get the KYC solution you need, plus transaction screening and AML as part of the deal. Part of a larger BI ecosystem: Actico also offers products for credit decisioning, fraud prevention, claims management, and fraud prevention. Actico Cons Pricier product: There is no public information on the official pricing, but it is understood that Actico targets enterprise customers with a legacy pricing model that includes multi-year contracts. Focus on traditional FI tools: Actico targets renowned banks. If you need a more agile and flexible KYC solution, this might not be the best tool for you. Read more iComply Know Your Customer and Business iComply, also known as iComplyKYC, clearly states that it offers all the tools you need for identity validation. What are these tools exactly? Well, for starters, you have document verification, identity proofing, and identity verification using biometric authentication. There are also KYB tools to help your compliance even further. If you also need anti-money laundering tools, the company has got you covered with watchlists, PEP, and adverse media checks – all available via modules that you can enable or disable depending on your current regulatory needs. Pros Choice of integration KYB tools Cons Opaque pricing structure iComply Pricing You have to contact the iComply team for pricing details. Choose iComply If You want modular KYC, KYB, and AML tools that integrate in various ways with your business processes. iComply Pros Choice of integration: iComply lets you easily integrate via API or JavaScript. On-premise is also an option. KYB tools: You can know everything you need about customers and businesses, including ultimate beneficial owners. iComply Cons Opaque pricing structure: There is a pricing calculator on the iComply website, but it won’t let you see the results until you speak with the sales team. Read more What Technologies Does KYC Software Use? Since there are no set rules for performing a KYC check, a number of technologies may be employed and often combined as part of a multi-layered approach. Real-time Video and Liveness Verification Real-time ID checks are usually provided by a third-party company. You integrate the software into your system, and it allows customers to upload official documents to the site. Supported ID documents may include passports, driving licenses, or residency permits. Pros and cons: Video streaming is quickly becoming the global standard for ID verification in the financial services industry. While the technology is quickly improving, it is still considered high friction; it’s a clear obstacle in your customer’s journey. This can be particularly damaging if you offer fast, mobile services where user experience is a competitive advantage, for instance as a neobank or challenger bank. Fraudsters are also increasingly good at bypassing video and ID verification with doctored documents and videos (deepfakes). Biometrics Another growing area of identity verification for KYC is the use of biometric technology. It includes physical measurements that are unique to each individual, such as a face ID, voice recognition, or fingerprint identification. In KYC, biometrics are often used at the authentication stage to ensure the person performing the action is the right one. There is an overlap with liveness identification and multi-factor authentication (MFA). Pros and cons: Biometrics is a great tool for quick authentication, but it’s not enough to confirm the quality of ID documents. There are also reported high levels of false positives where the scanning isn’t precise enough to function properly. Blockchain While blockchain technology is commonly associated with cryptocurrencies, there has been a recent push to leverage it to store and share KYC identifiers anonymously. The idea is to capture user ID data, verify it once, and turn it into immutable data points that are accessible without revealing personal information – with enough confidence in their accuracy to pass a KYC check. Pros and cons: Blockchain KYC tools have a ton of potential. They can scale and be much more affordable than traditional KYC software. However, these kinds of solutions will only show their true worth once adoption becomes more mainstream. Digital Footprint Analysis Sometimes a key part of a KYC check is simply proving that the person exists. With digital footprint analysis, the idea is to rely on a user’s behavior, social media presence, and online history to confirm that they are real. You can also get a better idea of who you’re dealing with by checking the tools they use. An email address or phone number, for instance, can reveal a lot of information about someone. The same can be true of the devices they rely on to connect to your site. You may not be able to confirm their IDs, but you can certainly flag suspicious behavior to learn if the person in question is a criminal or not. Pros and cons: Digital footprint analysis is fast and frictionless, as it happens behind the scenes. It’s a fantastic way to filter out junk users and obvious fraudsters. However, as a standalone technique, it’s not enough to confirm someone’s identity. AI and Machine Learning While the terms artificial intelligence and machine learning may seem daunting, there’s another word you can use to describe the technology: automation. In short, it’s about using automated systems to accelerate verification to work with a higher volume of applications, whether it’s for image quality checks, document digitization, or suggesting risk rules. The key point is that you can’t outsource KYC to machines; the algorithms are simply a way to help with existing processes. Pros and cons: AI and machine learning are fantastic tools to automate existing processes, but you must be able to trust the quality of your tech. It’s also worth considering whether you want to work with a blackbox (opaque) or whitebox (transparent) system. The former is designed to work out of the box. The latter can give you human-readable reasons to understand how it works so you can have more control. Improve the Way You Do KYC Partner with SEON to stop losing money to fraud, and save money with pre-KYC checks. Speak with an Expert Choosing the Best KYC Software With an increasing number of options for KYC verification , it’s useful to understand how KYC software works and which solutions make sense for your business. Hopefully, this article will be a good primer on the topic, whether you need to perform KYC checks via data enrichment or ID document verification. FAQs Why do you need to invest in KYC software? KYC software is one of the most convenient solutions for automating Know Your Customer checks. These are legal requirements in a growing number of industries, including finance, iGaming, and crypto exchanges. KYC software can help you avoid compliance fines and accelerate customer verification to onboard more new customers without spending additional resources. What does KYC stand for? KYC stands for Know Your Customer. It is a set of guidelines that come from local regulators to ensure businesses know who they are dealing with. What do you need for KYC? The minimum requirements include knowing the customer’s full name, address, and date of birth. It usually involves checking an ID document such as a driver’s license, passport, or residency certificate. Share Share Share Table of contents What Is KYC Software? Top Features The 10 Best KYC Software Solutions SEON Onfido Trulioo Refinitiv KYC-Chain Token of Trust ComplyAdvantage Ondato Actico iComply What Technologies Does KYC Software Use? How to Choose the Best KYC Software FAQs You Might Be Interested In Previous Next Article Fraud is Not a Single Moment in Time: The Ongoing Battle Against Digital Deception Combat fraud with proactive strategies like continuous monitoring, machine learning, and smarter detection methods. Guide Collaborative Strategies for Mitigating Fraud Risks in Digital Banking Expansion As digital banking expands rapidly, especially in emerging markets, it faces not only the promise of growth but also a… Article A Look at Holiday Fraud Trends: Examining Volume, Types and Prevention Strategies In the lead-up to the fast-approaching and busy holiday season, we’ve been carefully analyzing customer data, as we do each… Article Integrating Fraud Insights into AML Investigations: Effective Approaches for Compliance Teams Integrating fraud insights into AML workflows streamlines compliance, reduces costs, and improves risk monitoring. Webinar The Evolution of KYC: Strategies to Lower Costs and Enhance Customer Experience This webinar will explore how adopting advanced pre-KYC processes can revolutionize customer onboarding, allowing digital banks, fintechs, and payment companies… Article Advanced AML Transaction Monitoring Rules for Fraud & Compliance Teams Read how SEON’s advanced AML transaction monitoring cuts false positives, detects threats, and ensures compliance with real-time, customizable rules. Article The Talk of SBC Summit Latinoamérica: Brazil’s High-Stakes Gambling Regulatory Landscape SBC’s Summit Latinoamérica brought together industry leaders, regulators and technology providers to discuss pressing issues and emerging opportunities in Latin… Case study iGaming Operator LeoVegas Uses SEON to Detect 10% More Fraud and Increase Analyst Efficiency LeoVegas uses SEON to cut manual reviews by 30% and improve fraud detection by 10%, ensuring scalable fraud prevention. Guide Onboarding Risk Reduction in Digital Banking Download our free guide to secure efficient digital bank onboarding and tackle evolving fraud risks. Take the First Step Toward Transformative Fraud Prevention “SEON significantly enhanced our fraud prevention efficiency, freeing up time and resources for better policies, procedures and rules.” Vladislav Notevskyi, Head of KYC, Soft2Bet Automate 95% of fraud checks Reduce fraudulent registrations by 90% Accelerate manual reviews by 90% Trusted by 5,000+ Global Organizations: Book Time With Our Experts Google Client ID First Name * Last Name * Business email * Company name * Country * Country Afghanistan Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Asia/Pacific Region Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory British Virgin Islands Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Canary Islands Cape Verde Caribbean Netherlands Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic Republic of the Congo Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic East Timor Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Europe Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern and Antarctic Lands Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kosovo Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau Macedonia (FYROM) Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar (Burma) Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island North Korea Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Islands Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Romania Russia Rwanda Réunion Saint Barthélemy Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands South Korea South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu U.S. Virgin Islands Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vatican City Venezuela Vietnam Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Åland Islands Job Title * Phone Number Please select all that apply * Fraud Prevention AML & Compliance Transaction monitoring White Glove Services How did you hear about us? * Just like you, we hate spam. We won't call you and we will only send you relevant emails, which you can opt-out of at any time. By signing up, you agree to our Terms Of Service and Privacy Policy . 4.7 4.9 Products Digital Footprint Device Intelligence AI & Machine Learning Customer Screening & Monitoring Case Management Shopify AWS Free Trial Use Cases Account Takeover Bonus Abuse Fake & Synthetic IDs Registration & Onboarding Transaction Monitoring Login & Activity Monitoring AI Automation Industries Financial Services iGaming Retail Payment Fraud Fintech Resources Articles Guides Comparisons Case Studies Events Webinars Dictionary Developers API Reference Knowledge Base Github Company About Us Contact Us Partners News Mediaroom Careers LinkedIn X Instagram Facebook Legal & Security FAQ API Status © 2024 Copyright SEON Technologies Ltd. ES EN

---

Top 10 KYC Providers 2023 In this article Main Articles Top 10 KYC Providers 2023 Close Titles In this article by Constantine Belov As a hard-working, goal-oriented, and well-rounded person, I always strive to do quality work for every job I do. Faced with challenging tasks in life, I have developed the habit of thinking rationally and creatively to solve problems, which not only helps me develop as a person, but also as a professional. Read More Proofreader Tamta Suladze Tamta is a content writer based in Georgia with five years of experience covering global financial and crypto markets for news outlets, blockchain companies, and crypto businesses. With a background in higher education and a personal interest in crypto investing, she specializes in breaking down complex concepts into easy-to-understand information for new crypto investors. Tamta's writing is both professional and relatable, ensuring her readers gain valuable insight and knowledge. Read More Share Top 10 KYC Providers 2023 Articles August 17, 2023 9 min Today, the cryptocurrency industry is experiencing unprecedented popularity, which on the one hand, it gives many advantages from using its potential, but on the other hand becomes the object of fraudulent activity, which is primarily aimed at cryptocurrency exchanges. Thus, to be able to trade and perform other types of financial transactions, new users undergo the KYC procedure , which is the central part of the process of verifying their identity. This article will talk about what KYC technology is and what are the benefits of using it. You will also learn about the 10 most successful and outstanding KYC providers in 2023. Key Takeaways KYC system is a universal tool that is used in the world of finance to ensure a complete process of user identification. KYC solutions provide an excellent level of protection of users’ personal information, help to fight money laundering and eliminate acts of fraud within the framework of work with finances. KYC providers are specialised companies whose work lies within the development of solutions to ensure the completeness and quality of the user identification procedure. What is a KYC Technology? KYC, or “Know Your Customer”, is a process that financial entities and corporations of all kinds use to verify the identity of their customers. This process helps to ensure the security of these organisations by verifying that their customers are who they claim to be and are not involved in illegal or fraudulent activities. Thus, in 2023, KYC will remain an essential part of the financial services industry, and the crypto industry in particular, as there is always a need to authenticate the identity of customers in order to protect and counteract money laundering and related activities. One of the critical elements of KYC is identity verification. This process involves confirming the identity of the user through several methods. On the one hand, there is the verification of relevant electronic identity documents, be it a passport, driver’s license or bank statement containing information on the place of registration. On the other hand, facial recognition technology and biometric authentication is used, which involves visual scanning of the client’s face using a system of gestures that must be performed in order to complete the verification process. These methods are not exhaustive, as today, with the development of crypto technologies, KYC solutions are being developed in parallel to meet crypto organisations’ requirements and security standards. Another important part of KYC technology is record keeping. What is meant by this is that all financial institutions, organisations and other institutions must keep records of the identity of all their customers so that they can refer to them in the event of any suspicious or illegal activity. This mechanism is highly likely to help prevent situations in which accounts are hacked and stolen and withdrawal of funds and coins from the wallet account, phishing, and other illegal operations aimed at defrauding and swindling users out of their money. Thus, KYC is an integral element of the system that ensures the safety and security of not only the funds and capital of users, but also customer data, which in turn helps maintain a high level of anonymity. Despite its simplicity, verification of documents can provide the necessary conditions for the process of combating money laundering, preventing payment fraud and fraud, which ultimately allows you to comfortably trade in any financial market without fear for the safety of funds and capital. Moreover, the application of modern KYC software within any financial institution for the purposes of secure digital identity and automation of verification processes will minimise the occurrence of any type of illegal and unlawful activity that will increase the overall security of all elements of the financial asset trading process. KYC solutions are a group of software that will soon be powered by artificial intelligence . What Are The Benefits of Using KYC Technology? Today, security in the financial markets is of paramount importance and KYC solutions as an important element of the system providing this security as part of the customer onboarding process are becoming increasingly popular, not least because of their many advantages that provide immeasurable benefits to companies in the financial sector. Let’s take a look at the main ones below. Fighting Money Laundering Money laundering is primarily related to the activity in which the proceeds of criminal activity are legitimised. This problem is very acute today due to the growing popularity of trading in financial assets, especially with the advent of crypto technologies, which in turn spurs the interest of criminals and criminal organisations in carrying out all kinds of illegal activities aimed at money laundering in any financial markets. KYC technology plays an essential role in anti-money laundering and identification of users’ identities, and already at the early stages of registration, it helps to eliminate the emergence of situations conducive to the development of activities aimed at money laundering. Preventing Fraudulent Activity Today, fraudulent activities have a wide range of activities aimed at gaining access to personal and investment information of users, extortion, phishing, and deception to obtain funds, money laundering, hacking, and interference with security systems in order to reduce the potential level of protection of the entire process of trading and investment activities in the market. KYC system provides invaluable assistance in matters related to the protection of personal and financial data of users, primarily helping fraud prevention and payment fraud prevention, which according to statistics, is one of the most popular ways of deception and fraud by criminal organisations and attackers. Protecting Customer Data User data is of the highest value in any organisation, and its safety and confidentiality are the highest priority within the security framework. Such data includes all personal information about the person who has a trading account on the trading platform. On the other hand, investment information related to the user’s trading activity and including data on account status, trading activity, transactions made, etc., is of particular value. KYC solutions with built-in suspicious activity detection systems can report the need to block the user’s account in order to identify potential threats creating such activity and eliminate it by applying appropriate measures or identity verification services aimed at re-identifying the user’s identity based on document verification or biometric authentication solution. Simplifying the Identification Process Before KYC systems were introduced, the process of identifying individuals was difficult and mediocre, which created some difficulties in uncovering fraud patterns. This was a big problem when it came to ensuring the protection and security of users’ personal and financial data. With the advent of KYC software, automating verification processes have been applied which has made the identification process much easier, faster and more comfortable without violating the privacy policy, which plays a paramount role in the basis of maintaining user trust. Protecting from Unauthorized Third Party Access KYC solutions provide an additional level of security, including the use of two-factor identification systems or protection by resetting an additional account password to email or phone to uncover fraud patterns and prevent  third parties from accessing the account. This method helps to maintain the necessary level of security throughout the entire time of using the platform’s services, in particular trading. Most Outstanding KYC Providers in 2023 Today, the market for KYC solutions is full of many options, each with its own features, advantages, and disadvantages. The development of the cryptocurrency sector in particular has become a catalyst for many companies involved in the development of security solutions, creating KYC systems. Let’s take a look at the top 10 most successful companies in the KYC software market. Shufti Pro Shufti Pro is a cutting-edge identity verification provider that utilises artificial intelligence to create more effective KYC and AML screening solutions. This software provides a simple and effective method of preventing online fraud and identity theft while being reasonably priced and able to authenticate everyone worldwide. A sizable data bank has been developed by Shufti Pro to combat financial crime, which contains profiles from 1,000 sanctions and watch lists maintained by domestic and international law enforcement agencies. Furthermore, this database includes information originating from 3,000 databases maintained by international financial watchdogs and authorities and PEP lists mandated by the FATF. Data checks based on Anti-Money Laundering (AML) by Shufti Pro protect businesses against financial risks and penalties. Trulioo A global identity verification service provider, Trulioo verifies customer information from over 400 sources, including a database of more than 5 billion individuals worldwide. A $2 billion valuation has been assigned to the Vancouver-based startup since it was founded in 2011. The Trulioo service offers a full range of security systems, including KYC solutions with a secure digital identity network that allows identity verification elements by verifying the user’s address, documents, and accounts. All this allows the company to occupy one of the leading positions in ranking the most successful companies offering security solutions. Ondato Ondato , an AML and KYC process optimisation technology company, has launched sales of its high-precision artificial intelligence-based OCR (Optical Character Recognition) technology as a standalone solution to other identity system providers. The efficient, accurate and fast technology, built into Ondato’s proprietary solutions for identity verification and onboarding processes in organisations, is now available as an open API integration for use by third parties. It can read and digitise more than 10,000 document templates in less than a second with 99.8% accuracy and automatically transfers the data to any system – such as a CRM, database or other tool, enabling significantly faster KYC and AML compliance for organisations during onboarding anywhere in the world and across all industry sectors. Fractal ID With a conversion rate of 40% when compared to industry standards, Fractal ID is a KYC/AML service platform from the German fintech firm Fractal that offers quick and accurate global verification. OCR and face recognition are used to check passports and national IDs. In addition to providing KYC/AML regulatory norms at the bank level, Fractal ID complies with GDPR. There are several degrees of verification supported by Fractal ID. Each level can also be enhanced with a variety of add-ons. This will affect the data the user is asked to share and, as a result, how they interact with Fractal ID. Sumsub SumSub is a single solution for all tasks related to remote user verification for security and compliance. Artificial intelligence-based technology automates identity and document verification to protect against fraud. It also provides KYC, KYT checks, AML screening, and customer data storage for security and regulatory compliance. Sumsub also provides companies with an AI-based identity verification system for users and corporate customers. Verification takes 60 seconds, the company says – for example, the service can determine if a document photo has been altered. It takes several hours to verify a company – the service analyses commercial activities in a particular country, managers, and beneficiaries, considering the peculiarities of regulation in different countries. Seon In order to prevent money laundering on cryptocurrency exchanges and in the Forex market, SEON is one of the most effective, flexible, and complete KYC technologies available. The business keeps an eye out for questionable conduct in the media and online using its arsenal of KYC and AML technologies using a special customer identification program. Additionally, the business provides a huge selection of analytics tools for studying user activity. Onfido Onfido is an English company that offers an online user identification service using facial biometrics. Popular crypto exchanges and other financial organisations actively cooperate with Onfido. The company’s arsenal includes solutions for biometric user identification, AML compliance verification, and other criteria that form the backbone of any financial institution’s security. According to the verification system developed by Onfido, it is necessary to go through two steps; where in the first step, it is required to present a valid document, for example, a passport or driver’s license – where a person’s photo will be displayed, his name and surname will be read in Latin. There will be other data from the document that will confirm its validity. In the second step, it is necessary to connect the webcam of your computer and take a high-quality photo of your face, after that the artificial intelligence (as it is stated by Onfido) will check everything and decide online whether the photo in the document corresponds to the photo of the person from the webcam, if the intelligence so considers, it means that it will be possible to pass this very identification. Refinitiv Refinitiv is a global financial market data and infrastructure provider offering businesses a range of KYC solutions. Its World-Check product is a risk intelligence database that helps companies comply with anti-money laundering (AML) and counter-terrorism financing (CTF) regulations. Refinitiv’s solutions are robust, reliable, and innovative technology has a user-friendly interface, making it an appealing choice for businesses looking to enhance their KYC processes. KYC-Chain Using a cutting-edge platform called KYC-Chain , businesses and financial institutions can manage client data confidently and efficiently, while consumers can securely manage their digital identities. This platform was created on top of the practicality and security of distributed ledger technology. For businesses and financial institutions, KYC-Chain offers consensus on the identities of people and firms at the most significant degree of trust, streamlining the process of onboarding new clients while maintaining regulatory compliance. With new KYC-Chain technology, businesses can conduct smart verification processes that will satisfy regulators. At the same time, end users can become the only owners of their identity data. ComplyAdvantage ComplyAdvantage is a service offering  KYB, KYC and AML instruments for dealing with financial crime risks and technologies for their detection based on artificial intelligence. ComplyAdvantage’s mission is to neutralise the risk of laundering proceeds of crime, terrorist financing, corruption and other financial crimes. ComplyAdvantage collects information about suspicious customers from various databases, from government organisations to financial companies. In total, the company claims to have 20,000 sources. Its software identifies suspicious transactions by checking customer data and transaction information against these lists. Conclusion The importance of KYC technology these days can hardly be overemphasised. Providing a high level of security and safety of personal and financial information, as well as reducing the probability of theft, phishing and hacking due to its numerous advantages, KYC technology plays a crucial role in the formation of a system providing a secure process of working in the financial markets. Seeking answers or advice? Share your queries in the form for personalized assistance B2Broker uses the information you provide to us to notify you about updates to our products and services. For more information, check out our Privacy Policy Request a Callback by Constantine Belov As a hard-working, goal-oriented, and well-rounded person, I always strive to do quality work for every job I do. Faced with challenging tasks in life, I have developed the habit of thinking rationally and creatively to solve problems, which not only helps me develop as a person, but also as a professional. Read More Proofreader Tamta Suladze Tamta is a content writer based in Georgia with five years of experience covering global financial and crypto markets for news outlets, blockchain companies, and crypto businesses. With a background in higher education and a personal interest in crypto investing, she specializes in breaking down complex concepts into easy-to-understand information for new crypto investors. Tamta's writing is both professional and relatable, ensuring her readers gain valuable insight and knowledge. Read More Share Related news Why is AML Screening Important? What is Trader’s Room and How it Simplifies Forex Trading Choosing Regulation for Forex Broker Licence in 2023. Pros & Cons Why KYC is Important for Brokerage Companies Subscribe  to our newsletter Subscribe By clicking “Subscribe”, you agree to the Privacy Policy Read also How to Calculate Profit and Loss – Investor’s Guide 2025 Articles How to Develop a DEX Platform in 2025 Articles Grid Trading — What is it And How to Benefit From it? Articles US Inflation is UP! Will The Interest Rate Cuts Continue? Industry News Library What is a Margin Call? Basic What is Overnight Trading, and How Does it Affect the Markets? Advanced What is an IOC Order? Advanced What is a Contract Size? Definition & Overview Professional Please fill the form and send request. We will send you a link! B2Broker uses the information you provide to us to contact you about our relevant content, products and services. For more information, check out our Privacy Policy. Request a Callback Thanks for your request! We will contact you shortly Subscribe and stay tuned for the latest innovations in the FX, Crypto, Prime Brokerage & FinTech industries. Join our webinar We offer a large range of products and services to enhance your business operations. Check them out here... B2Broker uses the information you provide to us to contact you about our relevant content, products and services. For more information, check out our Privacy Policy. Request a Callback Please complete the form and submit your request. We will be in touch shortly. We offer a large range of products and services to enhance your business operations. Learn more. B2Broker uses the information you provide to us to contact you about our relevant content, products and services. For more information, check out our Privacy Policy. Request a Callback

---

Table of Contents Expand Table of Contents Know Your Client (KYC) Understanding KYC KYC Requirements KYC Compliance AML and KYC KYC and Cryptocurrency FAQs The Bottom Line Laws & Regulations SEC Know Your Client (KYC): What It Means and Compliance Requirements By James Chen Full Bio James Chen, CMT is an expert trader, investment adviser, and global market strategist. Learn about our editorial policies Updated August 06, 2024 Reviewed by Eric Estevez Fact checked by David Rubin Fact checked by David Rubin Full Bio David is comprehensively experienced in many facets of financial and legal research and publishing. As an Investopedia fact checker since 2020, he has validated over 1,100 articles on a wide range of financial and investment topics. Learn about our editorial policies Investopedia / Yurle Villegas Close What Is Know Your Client (KYC)? Know Your Client (KYC) is a standard in the investment industry that ensures advisors can verify a client's identity and know their client's investment knowledge and financial profile. Three components of KYC include the customer identification program (CIP), imposed under the USA PATRIOT Act in 2001, customer due diligence (CDD), and ongoing monitoring or enhanced due diligence (EDD) of a customer's account once it is established. 1 2 Key Takeaways Know Your Client (KYC) is a standard used in the investment and financial services industry to verify customers and know their risk and financial profiles. Three components of KYC include the customer identification program (CIP), customer due diligence (CDD), and enhanced due diligence (EDD). The SEC requires that each new customer provide detailed financial information before opening an investment or banking account. 3 Client-Financial Advisor Discussion Guide Should I Invest In Crypto? Download Guide Download Guide Understanding Know Your Client (KYC) The Know Your Client (KYC) rule is an ethical requirement for those in the securities industry dealing with customers during the opening and ongoing maintenance of accounts. It is implemented at the onset of the customer-broker relationship to establish the essential personal profile of each customer before any financial recommendations are made. The customer is also made aware of the need to comply with all the laws, regulations, and rules of the securities industry. 4 Take the Next Step to Invest Advertiser Disclosure × The offers that appear in this table are from partnerships from which Investopedia receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where listings appear. Investopedia does not include all offers available in the marketplace. KYC Requirements Customer Identification Program CIP requires that financial firms obtain four pieces of identifying information about a client, including name, date of birth, address, and identification number. 5 Customer Due Diligence CDD is a process in which all of a customer’s credentials are collected to verify their identity and evaluate their risk profile for suspicious account activity. Enhanced Due Diligence EDD is used for customers that are at a higher risk of infiltration, terrorism financing, or money laundering and additional information collection is often necessary. KYC Compliance Two rules governing KYC include Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) Rule 2090 (Know Your Customer) and FINRA Rule 2111 (Suitability). FINRA Rule 2090 requires every broker-dealer to use reasonable diligence when opening and maintaining client accounts and to know and keep records on the profile of each customer, as well as identify each person who has the authority to act on the customer’s behalf. 6 FINRA Rule 2111 notes that a broker-dealer must have a reasonable basis to believe that a recommendation is suitable for a customer based on the client’s financial situation and needs. This rule assumes that the broker-dealer has completed a review of the current facts and profile of the customer, including the customer’s other securities and investments before making any purchase, sale, or exchange of a security on the client's behalf. 7 AML and KYC The U.S. Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) requires both customers and financial institutions to comply with KYC standards to prevent illegal activity, specifically money laundering. AML, anti-money laundering, is a term for the range of measures and processes used to achieve regulatory compliance. KYC is a component of AML. FinCEN requires financial institutions to understand the type and purpose of the customer relationship and develop a customer risk profile, used as a baseline for detecting suspicious customer activities. 8 9 Financial institutions must also maintain current and accurate customer information and continue to monitor accounts for suspicious and illegal activities. When detected, they are required to promptly report their findings. 10 KYC and Cryptocurrency The cryptocurrency market is praised for providing a decentralized medium of exchange that promotes confidentiality. However, these benefits also present challenges in preventing money laundering. Criminals see cryptocurrency as a vehicle to launder money and as a result, governing bodies are looking for ways to impose KYC on cryptocurrency markets. 11 Are your clients interested in crypto? Use this discussion guide. Most cryptocurrency platforms are considered money services businesses (MSBs) and must comply with anti-money laundering (AML) laws, which require customer identification programs and certain reporting and recordkeeping procedures. 12 Fiat-to-crypto exchanges facilitate transactions involving fiat currencies and cryptocurrencies. Since fiat currency is the official currency of a nation, most of these exchanges employ a measure of KYC and financial institutions would have vetted their customers according to KYC requirements. 13 $60 million The penalty assessed against Bitcoin mixer Larry Dean Harmon for violating anti-money laundering laws. 14 In Dec. 2020, FinCEN proposed that cryptocurrency and digital asset market participants submit, maintain, and verify customers' identities. This rule classifies certain cryptocurrencies as monetary instruments, subjecting them to KYC requirements. The proposed rule is slated for final action in Feb. 2024. 15 16 What Is KYC Verification? The Know Your Client (KYC) verification is a set of standards and requirements used in the investment and financial services industries to ensure brokers have sufficient information about their clients, their risk profiles, and their financial position. 3 What Is KYC in the Banking Sector? KYC in the banking sector requires bankers and advisors to identify their customers, beneficial owners of businesses, and the nature and purpose of customer relationships. Banks must also review customer accounts for suspicious and illegal activity and maintain and ensure the accuracy of the customer accounts. What Are KYC Documents? Account owners generally must provide a government-issued ID as proof of identity. Some institutions require two forms of ID, such as a driver's license, birth certificate, social security card, or passport. In addition to confirming identity, the address must be confirmed. This can be done with proof of ID or with an accompanying document confirming the address of the client. 17 The Bottom Line Know Your Client (KYC) is a set of standards and requirements investment and financial services companies use to verify the identity of their customers and any associated risks with the customer relationship. KYC requires customers to provide a personal identification profile and KYC ensures investment advisors are aware of their client's risk tolerance and financial position. Article Sources Investopedia requires writers to use primary sources to support their work. These include white papers, government data, original reporting, and interviews with industry experts. We also reference original research from other reputable publishers where appropriate. You can learn more about the standards we follow in producing accurate, unbiased content in our editorial policy. Dow Jones. “ Understanding the Steps of a ‘Know Your Customer’ Process .” U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. “ Customer Identification Programs for Broker-Dealers .” Federal Register. “ Books and Records Requirements for Brokers and Dealers Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 .” Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. “ Obligations to Your Customers .” Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. “ Customer Identification Program Notice .” Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. “ 2090. Know Your Customer .” Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. “ FINRA Rule 2111 (Suitability) FAQ .” Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. “ Information on Complying with the Customer Due Diligence (CDD) Final Rule .” Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. “ FinCEN Guidance ,” Pages 1-3. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. “ Bank Secrecy Act, Anti-Money Laundering, and Office of Foreign Assets Control ,” Page 5. Congressional Research Service. “ Cryptocurrency: Selected Policy Issues .” Page 19. Congressional Research Service. “ Cryptocurrency: Selected Policy Issues .” Page 25. Cointelegraph. “ What Is KYC, and Why Do Crypto Exchanges Require It? ” U.S. Treasury Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. " First Bitcoin 'Mixer' Penalized by FinCEN or Violating Anti-Money Laundering Laws ." Federal Register. “ Requirements for Certain Transactions Involving Convertible Virtual Currency or Digital Assets .” Pages 83840-83847. Federal Register. “ 406. Requirements for Certain Transactions Involving Convertible Virtual Currency [1506–AB47] .” Page 11281. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. “ FFIEC BSA/AML Examination Manual: Customer Identification Program .” Pages 3-5. Open a New Bank Account Advertiser Disclosure × The offers that appear in this table are from partnerships from which Investopedia receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where listings appear. Investopedia does not include all offers available in the marketplace. Related Terms Regulation B (Reg B) in the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA) Regulation B outlines the rules that lenders must adhere to when obtaining and processing credit information. more Caveat: What It Means, Types, and What It Means for Investors Caveat is a Latin term used in many legal and financial terms, usually a warning to be aware of something as a matter of course. more Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS): What It Is and How It Works The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) is a government agency that produces a range of data about the U.S. economy. more What Was Enron? What Happened and Who Was Responsible Enron was a U.S. energy company that perpetrated one of the biggest accounting frauds in history. Read about Enron’s CEO and the company’s demise. more SEC Form 8-K: Definition, What It Tells You, Filing Requirements Companies are required by the Securities and Exchange Commission to file an 8-K to announce major events relevant to shareholders, such as an acquisition. more What Is SEC Form S-8? Definition Vs. S-1, Purpose, and Filing SEC Form S-8 is a registration form for securities offered as part of employee benefit plans. more Related Articles How Are Asset Management Firms Regulated? Why Is There an IPO Lock-Up Period and How Long Does It Last? Regulation B (Reg B) in the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA) How Does the International Monetary Fund Function? Caveat: What It Means, Types, and What It Means for Investors SEC Crypto Regulations: What Financial Advisors Need to Know Partner Links

---

You are here : Home Markets Digital Identity and Security Banking & Payment Services for Banks Know Your Customer in banking KYC (Know Your Customer) is today a significant element in the fight against financial crime and money laundering, and customer identification is the most critical aspect as it is the first step to better perform in the other stages of the process. The global anti-money laundering (AML) and countering the financing of terrorism (CFT) landscape raise tremendous stakes for financial institutions. International regulations influenced by standards like The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) are now implemented in national laws encompassing strong directives like AML 4 and 5 and preventive measures like "KYC" for client identification. Let's start with a definition of KYC and eKYC and discover how advanced ID verification systems can better support KYC processes . Ready? What is KYC? KYC means Know Your Customer and sometimes Know Your Client. KYC or KYC check is the mandatory process of identifying and verifying the client's identity when opening an account and periodically over time. In other words, banks must ensure that their clients are genuinely who they claim to be. Banks may refuse to open an account or halt a business relationship if the client fails to meet minimum KYC requirements. KYC cloud services to secure digital onboarding Read more on ID Verification Why is the KYC process important? KYC procedures defined by banks involve all the necessary actions to ensure their customers are real and assess and monitor risks. These client-onboarding processes help prevent and identify money laundering, terrorism financing, and other illegal corruption schemes. KYC process includes ID card verification, face verification, document verification such as utility bills as proof of address, and biometric verification. Banks must comply with KYC regulations and anti-money laundering regulations to limit fraud. KYC compliance responsibility rests with the banks. In case of failure to comply, heavy penalties can be applied. In the U.S., Europe, the Middle East, and the Asia Pacific, a cumulated USD26 billion in fines have been levied for non-compliance with AML, KYC, and sanctions fines the past ten years (2008-2018) - let alone the reputational damage done and not measured. According to the United Nations, criminals are laundering between $1.6 to $4 trillion annually (2 to 5% of global GDP). Stricter KYC/CDD processes are helping to stop that. KYC documents KYC checks are done through an independent and reliable source of documents, data, or information. Each client is required to provide credentials to prove identity and address . In May 2018, the U.S. Financial Crimes Enforcement Network ( FinCEN ) - added a new requirement for banks to verify the identity of natural persons of legal entity customers who own, control and profit from companies when those organizations open accounts. Bottom line: when a corporate company opens a new account, it must provide Social Security numbers and copies of a photo ID and passports for its employees, board members, and shareholders. What is eKYC? In India, Electronic Know Your Customer or Electronic Know Your Client, or eKYC, is a process wherein the customer's identity and address are verified electronically through Aadhaar authentication. Aadhaar is India's national biometric eID scheme. Why is eKYC so popular in India? It's because 99.9% of the adult population has a digital identity in the country. In January 2023, 1,3 billion residents got their Aadhaar number. eKYC also refers to capturing information from IDs (OCR mode), extracting digital data from government-issued smart IDs (with a chip) with a physical presence, or using certified digital identities and facial recognition for online identity verification . Customer onboarding can then be done via mobile. eKYC (aka online KYC) is considered more and more feasible as its accuracy is improving by utilizing Artificial Intelligence (AI). eKYC, facial recognition, and digital account opening Banking is undoubtedly the area where facial recognition was least expected. And yet, it promises a lot. KYC onboarding with facial recognition online is a hot topic in 2021. Why? Covid-19 pushed customers and banks to rely more heavily on digital channels and apps. In the United States alone, 64% of primary checking account openings were done online in Q2 2020 ( and 36% in branches). And this is not going to change. A recent study from Visa and BAI showed that the trend would continue after the pandemic. Beyond that, increased mobile usage urges businesses to focus on mobile-first and develop fully mobile user-friendly onboarding experiences. During identification (a selfie), the software usually provides a liveness detection feature to avoid spoofing attacks using a static image. Liveness detection proves that the selfie taken comes from a live person. This type of KYC check is also used for cryptocurrency trading apps. The result? Financial institutions can invest in digital onboarding, including video KYC (video identification), and leverage biometrics through online and mobile channels to adapt to customer preferences. Authentication cloud services to secure access to digital banking Read more on authentication cloud service Anti-Money Laundering Directive In Europe, the fourth Anti-Money Laundering (AMLD4) directive entered into force in June 2017 with a new set of rules to help financial entities protect against the risks of money laundering and financing terrorism.​​ The enhanced version of the fifth AML directive (AMLD5), effective as of 10 January 2020, brought new challenges for financial institutions: Improve understanding of customers, beneficial owners of legal entities, and their financial dealings to minimize risk Stricter Customer Due Diligence (CDD) Control customer identity and share data with central administration EU member states must implement the directive within two years. ​​​ KYC process flow KYC and Customer Due Diligence measures The KYC policy is a mandatory framework for banks and financial institutions for customer identification . Its origin stems from the 2001 Title III of the Patriot Act , to provide various tools to prevent terrorist activities. To comply with international regulations against money laundering and terrorist financing, reinforced Know Your Customer procedures must be implemented in the first stage of any business relationship when enrolling a new customer. Banks usually frame their KYC policies incorporating the following four key elements: Customer Policy Customer Identification Procedures (data collection, identification, verification, politically exposed person/sanctions lists check) aka Customer Identification Program (CIP) Risk assessment and management (due diligence, part of the KYC process) Ongoing monitoring and record-keeping This involves verifying a customer's identity through documents, including a national ID Document with a document reader and advanced document verification software. From visual ID checks to digital verification For some, this is still primarily a paper-based check with KYC forms to fill out. See examples here. For others, it's a digital process that involves verifying that an identity document is genuine or even going further to authenticate the document holder through additional biometric checks such as facial or fingerprint checks. A digital ID verification process enables a bank to automatically capture customer demographic data, which can be integrated into enterprise systems like CRM to: streamline the customer onboarding process, conduct further due diligence and risk assessment, review for PEP s (Politically Exposed Persons). Financial institutions must also maintain records on transactions and Information obtained through Customer Due Diligence measures. These requirements should apply to all new and existing customers based on materiality and risk. Enhanced Due Diligence (aka EDD)  is a KYC process implementing a more profound analysis to provide higher identity assurance. Welcoming the Wallet What the new European Digital Identity Framework means for citizens, governments and businesses Learn more about eIDAS 2 and the EDIW KYC verification: Innovative approaches welcome In November 2018, US agencies, including the Federal Reserve , issued a joint declaration encouraging some banks to become increasingly sophisticated in identifying suspicious activity and experimenting with artificial intelligence and digital identity technologies. The European Supervisory Authorities promoted new solutions to address specific compliance challenges earlier in the year. They suggest retaining a common approach for consistent standards across the EU. They anticipate several types of control, such as «a built-in computer application that automatically identifies and verifies a person from a digital image or a video source ( facial biometrics )” or “a built-in security feature that can detect images that are or have been tampered with (e.g., facial morphing) whereby such images appear pixelated or blurred.” The use of biometrics can be challenged by local or regional regulations (GDPR in the EU, CCPA in California, to name a few). Read our web dossier on biometric data and data protection regulations. Mobile biometric authentication with Thales Gemalto Mobile Protector Read more on biometric authentication for mobile banking How can we help? With strong expertise in ID verification for governments, Gemalto supports private customers by providing a solution that helps them comply with the new rules, particularly those regarding CDD (Customer Due Diligence) and KYC obligations. ID Verification helps banks provide a smooth customer onboarding experience that complies with KYC regulations and minimizes fraud risk. Our solution automatically provides, in a matter of seconds: digital capture of customer information for instant auto-fill in enterprise data systems multichannel identity document verification with adaptable security levels the option of customer authentication using biometric technologies the option of customer risk assessment through the review of PEPs, sanctions or watchlists Our system uses the AI approach, where the system can learn from data. It's a central component of the latest-generation algorithms developed by Thales in its ID Verification systems. In short, you will rapidly increase your onboarding rate as the system learns and gets better constantly. More resources on AML/KYC FATF recommendations (as amended February 2023) The Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2020 ( FinCEN June 2021) Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018 ( UK ) KYC and eKYC in India: What is KYC as per RBI ? RBI Allows Video-based KYC yet (Money Life India January 2021) Video KYC for digital bank opening is growing in India (02 March 2021 - The Hindu ) Indian telcos demand Aadhaar-based e-KYC for verification charges to be reduced ( Financialexpress.com , 8 October 2020) Bank KYC updating: No Penalty on Indian Banks (Moneylife, March 2021) PPP, SMBs and the challenges of KYC ( payments.com ,16 October 2020) KYC compliance can be a competitive advantage ( cointelegraph.com , 6 October 2020) KYC and digital-first in banking (10 December 2021) More on biometrics and its contribution to identification and verification Facial recognition in 2023: 7 trends to watch Discover IdCloud KYC , Gemalto Advanced ID verification solution Trusted Digital Identity for Everyone Everything Everyday See our Digital ID vision Documents Single Vendor Approach to Banking Security Single Vendor Approach to Banking Security [PDF - 1.2mb] Everything you need to know about AML 5 The fifth Anti Money Laundering Directive (AMLD5) set a new set of rules to help financial entities protect against the risks of money laundering and financing of terrorism Download the infographic Get in touch with us For more information regarding our services and solutions contact one of our sales representatives. We have agents worldwide that are available to help with your digital security needs. Fill out our contact form and one of our representatives will be in touch to discuss how we can assist you. Please note we do not sell any products nor offer support directly to end users. If you have questions regarding one of our products provided by e.g. your bank or government, then please contact them for advice first.

---

Complete Guide to KYC Onboarding | Veriff.com Talk to us Library KYC hub KYC business Mastering KYC onboarding: Your ultimate guide with a comprehensive checklist Mastering KYC onboarding: Your ultimate guide with a comprehensive checklist The KYC onboarding process is the customer due diligence (CDD) process that regulated entities such as banks are required to undertake before they onboard a new customer. The ultimate goal of the KYC onboarding process is to fight fraud, money laundering, and tax evasion. Maksim Afanasjev Staff Product Manager July 17, 2024 KYC Finserv KYC Share: On this page Why customer onboarding is crucial – and the importance of KYC? What exactly does a KYC check include? How do the key components of a KYC checklist enhance user trust during onboarding? How do businesses ensure effective user identity verification using the key components of a KYC checklist? What compliance and KYC benefits does effective user onboarding bring to businesses? What impact can efficient onboarding combined with KYC have on fraud prevention and risk management? How can Veriff's KYC tools enhance the efficiency and accuracy of the onboarding process? Customer onboarding is the process of welcoming new customers into your business, while KYC (Know Your Customer) is a process of identifying and verifying individuals and their level of risk. It is important to note that not all customer onboarding involves KYC. Customer onboarding in KYC is the process of identifying and verifying individuals before they become customers of a business. This involves validating information such as their name, date of birth, and address to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements and prevent financial crimes like money laundering. Why customer onboarding is crucial – and the importance of KYC? Customer onboarding is critical to creating great customer experiences – while also helping your organization stay secure and compliant. A great onboarding experience sets the right tone for the service a customer can expect. However, if handled poorly, it can leave a negative impression about the organization. Research shows that acquiring a new customer is anywhere between five and 25 times more expensive than retaining an existing one – so it’s essential to make the onboarding experience as smooth as possible for customers. In fact, customers who have a positive impression of the onboarding process have much less drop-off after 21 days of being a customer compared with those who have a negative experience, while companies that focus on user onboarding able to increase their prices by 10% without any push back from customers. However, the customer onboarding process can expose companies to financial risks, too. Many businesses are required by law to prevent financial crimes, such as money laundering and tax evasion. Failure to comply can result in significant financial penalties, and even loss of license. As a result, companies are also obliged to implement a user onboarding process as a means of verifying the identity of individuals. To tackle this challenge, businesses usually follow the Know Your Customer (KYC) onboarding process, which includes establishing a customer identification program (CIP). Although the process varies geographically, this is a four-step workflow process that involves collecting the full name, date of birth, and address of the customer. Once the company has this information, it must then verify that person. To accomplish this for remote onboarding, the individual will typically be asked to provide a government-issued ID and a selfie . Establishing the correct KYC onboarding process is a vital part of ensuring that your business meets its regulatory obligations. However, if your KYC verification processes are too burdensome or inefficient, you'll find that your conversion rates drop sharply. Meanwhile, properly managed, customer onboarding will result in happy customers.. In addition, satisfied customers are more likely to tell their friends about your service – boosting your word-of-mouth marketing. Consumers are also more likely to pay a premium for a service if they perceive the onboarding process to be smooth and efficient. For this reason, you should consider how your KYC onboarding process can be streamlined and automated, while meeting your regulatory requirements. What exactly does a KYC check include? The KYC procedure is a multi-step process that checks the identity of individuals. It encompasses the verification of a government-issued identity document to confirm the identity of the person, biometric verification technology to match the person with their ID photo, document checks such as utility bills to provide proof of address, and liveness checks, to add an additional layer of security. These steps are critical in helping to mitigate identity fraud and financial crimes. As a result, regulated organizations such as banks and financial institutions are strictly required to adhere to KYC and anti-money laundering (AML) regulations to protect both their operations and their customers. The digital age has facilitated a huge increase in online banking and digital financial transactions, which has in turn delivered a surge in cybercrimes and identity theft. As a result, KYC procedures are increasingly important, helping ensure your business complies with legal regulations. There are three key components to KYC: Customer Identification Program (CIP): CIP is the process of verifying a customer's identity through documents such as government-issued IDs. Customer Due Diligence (CDD): CDD involves collecting and analyzing information about a customer's risk profile to identify any potential red flags or risks. Enhanced Due Diligence (EDD): EDD is a more thorough level of due diligence that may be required for customers with higher risk profiles, such as politically exposed persons or those involved in high-risk transactions.  Overall, these components work together to ensure businesses have a complete understanding of and can verify the identity and potential risks associated with their customers. How do the key components of a KYC checklist enhance user trust during onboarding? Customers want a frictionless onboarding experience – more than three in five users (63%) consider the process when deciding whether to purchase a service or a product. When it comes to completing the KYC process , consumers want to know that it will be quick and effective, and that their data will be protected. To maintain user trust throughout the process, companies should bear in mind the following factors: Verification accuracy An important step in the KYC process is identity verification . To verify a person is who they claim to be, the customer will be asked to provide proof of identity and address. To expedite this process, companies can deploy an automated solution, to carry out identity verification in less than a minute and to onboard customers within hours. Here, time is of the essence – customers will give up and go elsewhere if the process is long and convoluted. Transparency It is also vital that the KYC process is transparent and that all customers understand how their personal information is being used. Let’s take the life insurance industry as an example. There, potential policyholders must be thoroughly screened before a policy is issued. Their identity should be established, and their risk level assessed to prevent fraudulent activities. But for the customer to have trust in the process, it must be fully transparent – they need to understand what the insurer's requirements are and why they are being asked to share personal information. Data Security KYC involves the sharing of highly personal data. All this collected data – whether it involves personal identifiable data collected from documents or biometric authentication information, must be protected. To maintain user trust, companies should ensure that they comply with data privacy regulations such as the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and make the customer aware of this fact. GDPR establishes standards on the protection of personal data companies handle and the privacy of their customers. Efficiency Lengthy KYC processes can frustrate customers and increase abandonment rates, especially in industries where fast onboarding is essential, such as buy now, pay later companies, or delivery services. That's why many organizations have moved away from manual KYC processes, which tend to be time-consuming and labor-intensive. It is also easy for errors and unconscious bias to creep into the manual process, which can substantially lengthen its completion. Automated KYC on the other hand can have a positive impact on the customer, significantly reducing the time taken to verify customer identity and assess risk – all resulting in faster onboarding, improved customer satisfaction, and increased customer loyalty and retention. TALK TO US Talk to one of Veriff's compliance experts to see how IDV can help your business. Talk to us How do businesses ensure effective user identity verification using the key components of a KYC checklist? Fraud is a growing problem for businesses and consumers. According to the US Federal Trade Commission, consumer losses related to fraud increased by 70% in 2021 - to more than $5.8 billion . Increasingly, fraudsters are stealing peoples' identities for criminal purposes, a process known as identity theft. One way organizations can prevent this is through identity verification. But for identity verification to be effective, it must be incorporated into a KYC process and handled in a particular way. So, what are the different components of a KYC checklist and how do they inform user identity verification. Document verification Identity verification involves the submission of identity documents such as passports and driving licenses. This involves checking the authenticity of asserted documents – through the checking of document fonts, watermarks, holograms, and other security features. To save time and effort, this process is often done through automation. Data validation Accurate identity verification is dependent upon the data that customers provide. That's when data validation comes into play. Within the context of KYC, data validation is the process of verifying the customer data before the identity of the customer can be confirmed. It may be tempting to skip the validation process, but it is a vital step in ensuring that accurate results are generated. Identity authentication Establishing a person's identity can be difficult, particularly online. Identity verification helps ensure that somebody is who they claim to be. Authentication is often carried out using items a person already has. It might involve tokens, ID badges, or key cards. Alternatively, authentication may be based on someone’s physical attributes – which is why biometric information and documents are often a cornerstone of identity authentication. Whatever method is employed, authentication is a vital step in providing a person with certain rights and privileges – for example, having the opportunity to open a bank account. Risk assessment The purpose of risk assessment is to identify and evaluate potential risks that may arise from providing services to a particular customer. Some prospects are then moved into enhanced due diligence (EDD). EDD is intended to mitigate the risk associated with high-risk customers and involves a more detailed analysis of a customer's risk profile. Ongoing monitoring Ongoing monitoring allows businesses to identify any unusual patterns or changes in customer behavior that might indicate high-risk transactions. What compliance and KYC benefits does effective user onboarding bring to businesses? KYC practices play an important role in combating financial crimes such as money laundering. In fact, if a business fails to carry out KYC onboarding properly and does not meet its AML responsibilities, it can suffer huge fines and significant reputational damage. What impact can efficient onboarding combined with KYC have on fraud prevention and risk management? Verifying customers' identities through KYC onboarding can prevent fraudsters from entering your systems. If ID verification is carried out properly, it should identify out-of-date, inaccurate, or mismatched information. Efficient onboarding can also play an important role in risk management – every business must protect its reputation at all costs, and KYC plays an important role in this respect. How can Veriff's KYC tools enhance the efficiency and accuracy of the onboarding process? Veriff has several KYC tools that can enhance the accuracy and efficiency of the customer onboarding process. Our powerful identity verification solution is proven to deliver speed, convenience, and low friction to users. Combining AI-powered automation with reinforced learning from human feedback, our solution supports more than 12,000 document specimens from more than 230 countries and territories. See the worldwide map here! Our Biometric Authentication solution uses AI and facial biometric analysis to swiftly and securely authenticate users, granting instant access to products and services. Furthermore, this fast and fully automated process can be integrated into any stage of the customer journey. One aspect of the KYC onboarding process that can't be sidestepped is Proof of Address (POA). Our POA solution helps you stay compliant whilst getting a comprehensive view of a user's identity. Users can easily capture an image or upload a copy of a POA document. The document type and issue date are checked to ensure they are suitable and valid. Our Age Verification solutions complete our list of KYC products. Age Validation, enables you to seamlessly confirm whether users are above a predefined minimum age threshold, while our Age Estimation solution uses a single selfie to verify an individuals age without an identity document Learn more All posts fraud learn Deepfake danger: AI and the fight against fraudsters Deepfakes are a growing threat in identity verification (IDV), with dangers from face swapping to lip synching and a surge in fake documents. However, the same technologies that the fraudsters exploit – particularly artificial intelligence (AI) – can also be used to protect honest users. Abe Post-Hyatt, June 5, 2024 case study Veriff & Unlockt: enhancing security and age verification Discover how Veriff is helping Unlockt transform the file-sharing space with super-charged fraud prevention and age verification. Chris Hooper, July 8, 2024 identity verification news Advantages of biometric authentication: Leveraging biometric technology to prevent account takeovers Learn how biometric authentication can transform your security protocols and safeguard your digital assets in this comprehensive guide. Geo Jolly, June 19, 2024 Get the latest Veriff updates - subscribe to our newsletter Veriff will only use the information you provide to share blog updates. Subscribe You can unsubscribe at any time. Read our privacy terms . Products Identity and Document Verification Proof of Address Database Verification Checks Age Validation KYC Onboarding Biometric Authentication AML Screening Age Estimation Fraud Protect Fraud Intelligence Solutions By Industry Financial Services Mobility Crypto Gaming Education Healthcare HR Management By Use Case New account onboarding Age verification Driver validation Customer identity and access management Right to Work Right to Rent Resources Blog Case studies Help center Trust Center Documentation Service status Supported documents Supported languages About Our story Careers Press Switch language ​ English ​ ©2024 Veriff. All rights reserved Privacy notice Bug bounty Security and compliance Recruitment privacy notice Accessibility statement Your Privacy Choices We use cookies and similar technologies on this website, including those provided by third parties, to enable site functionality, analyze site usage, enhance user experience, perform analytics, and assist our advertising efforts. By using our Site you agree to our use of Cookies as described in our Privacy Notice . Close

---

risk scoring • 9 min read Best KYC software and tools Lenar Valk Business Development Manager Know Your Customer (KYC) involves understanding complex customer relationships to prevent unauthorised activity, including identity theft and fraud. KYC checks allow you to identify and verify your customers and follow global compliance practices. KYC checks are performed on new and potential customers when opening an account and periodically over time. With KYC software, you can get a better overview of your customers and reduce regulatory, financial and reputation risks. These days, it’s not just financial institutions that are required to perform KYC checks. More and more companies must protect their customers and business reputation. We made a list of the best KYC software providers to help you comply with KYC regulations and onboard customers while minimising risks to your business. This research is based on publicly available data including online user reviews. It reflects our individual opinions and aims to provide general information on the existing KYC software solutions. This is not a ranking: all solutions are presented in a randomised order. Salv – All-in-one AML Platform Veriff – AI-Powered Identity Verification Ondato – End-to-End KYC Management Quantexa – Contextual KYC Platform Fullcircl – Automated KYC & AML Platform Jumio – Online Identity Proofing and eKYC NorthRow – AML & KYC/B Onboarding Platform Onfido – AI-Powered Identity Verification Solution Trulioo – Automated Identity Verification & Compliance Togggle - Decentralised KYC Solution iDenfy – Identity Verification, AML, and KYB Solution What is KYC software? Many companies choose KYC software to meet legal requirements and create an environment that provides safety and accountability for their customers. KYC software enables companies to develop trust and establish competitive market strategies while adhering to global regulations. KYC software ensures that financial service providers and businesses operate robust policies and minimise the impact of money laundering, with consumer wellbeing in mind. Features of KYC software Your choice of KYC software should be based on the balance between compliance and good customer experience. Consider in your comparison the following features: Identity verification to analyse digital footprints and better understand who your customers are Document verification to verify the validity of submitted documents and prove document ownership Customer onboarding to streamline the onboarding process and avoid application abandonment Anti-Money Laundering (AML) features to enhance compliance defences with customer and transaction screening and monitoring. Here is our selection of best AML software KYC software allows you to take advantage of the latest technology to overcome operational constraints, and reduce compliance workload and related costs. Best KYC software and tools Salv Salv is a RegTech company that delivers AML software for banks and fintechs, taking them beyond traditional approaches in compliance. Salv does not provide full KYC functionality, but it can save you a lot of time and money by weeding out fraudulent users and keeping your good customers safe. Salv Platform takes care of your customer and transaction screening and monitoring with real-time checks and easily configurable rules. Its one and only counterparty monitoring feature gives you visibility of all counterparties, including those who are not immediately flagged as suspicious. Salv Risk Scoring is a component of Salv Platform, designed to calculate customer risk based on KYC data and transactional behaviour. Best thing about Salv : The score produced by Salv Risk Scoring can give you a better understanding of your customer risk landscape. Risk scoring rules can help you detect potential issues and mitigate the risks. Salv’s risk scoring rules match the latest FinCEN & FCA guidelines and audit scenarios. Veriff Veriff offers leading-edge technology to simplify and streamline your KYC processes. By integrating AI functionality into its products, Veriff brings a new level of precision and transparency to the onboarding process, allowing you to quickly identify fraudulent activity and make necessary changes. Veriff’s automated and customer-focused approach delivers clear benefits to consumers and businesses, proved by higher fraud prevention rates and faster conversions of valuable customers. Best thing about Veriff : You can secure customer accounts and convert more account holders with advanced facial recognition and assisted image capture technology. Veriff replaces legacy authentication practices and creates a safe environment for the consumer. Ondato Ondato provides a modular operating system for end-to-end KYC management and customer onboarding. A single dashboard view allows you to navigate through Ondato’s modules seamlessly: you can verify and onboard new customers, authenticate returning customers, and manage customer data. With Ondato, you can build a robust KYC platform by choosing modules that match your business needs. This approach can help you reduce operational workload and KYC-related business costs.
Best thing about Ondato: Ondato covers the full spectrum of compliance challenges, providing a central hub for AML/KYC compliance. The prices are quoted on the website – decide if it’s right for you before you book a demo. Quantexa Quantexa enables contextual decision intelligence to give you a better picture of your customers, optimise and automate compliance processes, and drive more intelligent decisions. Quantexa guides you with context, matching internal and external data points to detect hidden risks and enhance customer experience and operational performance. Best thing about Quantexa : Contextual Decision Intelligence (CDI) platform provides a connected view of data that facilitates a deeper understanding of KYC. Quantexa’s contextual approach takes you beyond direct risk identification and unlocks new growth opportunities while reducing time and cost throughout the KYC lifecycle. Fullcircl Fullcircl offers a customer lifecycle intelligence platform that maximises customer relationships and streamlines onboarding with automated KYC checks. The platform matches data points and enriches data to create deeper insights for your business. API-first approach allows you to seamlessly integrate Fullcircl solutions, automate manual processes and optimise KYC operations with an accurate and contextual view of data. Best thing about Fullcirl : Fullcircl transforms onboarding and reduces customer acquisition costs with a higher level of automation and contextualised view of data. Sophisticated data-matching algorithms and visualisation methods can give you a good overview of potential business customers and partners in the UK and Ireland. Jumio Jumio helps you reduce inefficiencies in your onboarding process by offering a complete suite of identity verification, authentication, and AML solutions. With Jumio, you can build trust in your customers – trust which has commercial value. By carrying out enhanced identity checks, powered by Jumio KYX Platform, you create a safety net for your customers and your business. Best thing about Jumio : Jumio has been around since 2016 and has already processed over 1 billion transactions from over 200 countries. It offers integrations with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Azurian, Microsoft, Oracle, Okta, and more. Give it a try! NorthRow NorthRow is a leading provider of onboarding, customer remediation, and regulatory compliance services. You can optimise your customer onboarding and monitoring processes with NorthRow’s fully managed, low-tech service for enhanced due diligence. NorthRow is easy to integrate and easy to use. You can configure NorthRow to your requirements by using a single API solution. Best thing about Northrow : it brings together a powerful combination of AML and KYC services and tools, streamlining your transition to a better customer experience and faster growth. Onfido Onfido will guide you through the complex thickets of digital customer acquisition and identity verification solutions. Onfido connects your business with your customers in an authentic and genuine way, while helping you to maintain KYC and AML requirements in each of the regions where you operate. Best thing about Onfido : In 2022, Onfido launched its Real Identity Platform with the objective of making identity verification a more simple, intuitive, and intelligent process. Onfido’s Real Identity Platform combines trusted data sources, biometric verifications and fraud detection signals. Trulioo With Trulioo, you can automatically verify customers anywhere in the world, scale and grow your business while making sure it fits seamlessly into the local verification ecosystem. Best thing about Trulioo : Trulioo provides one integrated platform that serves as a centralised gateway to online document verification, business verification, including AML/KYC checks on ultimate beneficial owners, and proof of address verification. Togggle Togggle offers a robust KYC solution to combat identity fraud and establish trust within the financial services sector. The platform promises a seamless user experience, boasting a user base of 250,000 verified individuals and facilitating instant onboarding through a one-click KYC process. Best thing about Togggle : It includes decentralised storage, which reduces the risk of data breaches compared to centralised verification systems. The service is designed to be compliance-ready, staying ahead of the latest regulations, which allows businesses to concentrate on growth and development while Togggle handles the complexities of KYC compliance and data management. iDenfy iDenfy , an anti-fraud and compliance company from Lithuania, is recognised for its identity verification, AML, and KYB (Know Your Business) solutions. The average score is 4.9 from a maximum of 5. The platform offers an identity verification solution with more than 3000 identity documents supported from 200 countries and territories. There is a direct integration for PEPs, sanctions, and adverse media checks with ongoing screening. Instead of charging per every identity session, the company chose a different route - clients pay only per approved customer, omitting denied verifications due to fraud, expiry, or bad image quality. With over 500 worldwide customers, including the Bank of Lithuania, iDenfy offers business verification with access to official credit bureaus for 160 countries and government-issued registry reports. Everything is integrated into a single platform with an option to generate reports required by auditors. How to choose KYC software KYC software comes in many shapes and forms. Some providers focus on identity verification and customer onboarding, while others emphasise contextualising data and enhancing the entire KYC lifecycle with data-driven insights. When choosing a KYC vendor, you want to ensure they can help you understand and manage customer risk, improve the onboarding experience, and handle regulatory compliance. You want to minimise fraud in the onboarding process, maintain a superior customer experience, and make it cost-efficient. There are a few more steps you can consider to make the process easier: Understand your company’s needs . Depending on your requirements, you may want to choose individual components like identity verification and biometric authentication. Or choose a more comprehensive end-to-end solution covering KYC and AML processes and ensure the integrity of your compliance program. Check the effectiveness of your KYC software . Test customer data, pay attention to the speed of manual reviews, and cross-check the results. This should give you a solid understanding of your vendor’s technology and ability to deliver tangible outcomes. Make sure the integration process doesn’t take too long . How soon will the system be integrated, and how long are you willing to wait? Make sure you can integrate and access your KYC software quickly, and reduce cost and time. Frequently Asked Questions about KYC software What is KYC? KYC means “Know Your Customer”. It describes the process of verifying customers’ identities and removing bad actors early in the onboarding process. KYC check is a mandatory step that involves assessing customer risk when opening an account and periodically over time to reduce fraud, corruption, money laundering, and terrorist financing. What does the KYC process include? The KYC process is based on identity verification and authentication, including digital ID document verification, face recognition, and biometric authentication. It’s not just financial institutions that must comply with KYC regulations – nowadays, the responsibility lies with companies across various industries. What are the components of an effective KYC framework? Customer Identification, Customer Due Diligence (CDD), and Enhanced Due Diligence (EDD) are the three components of an effective KYC framework. Together they add up to a multi-step process of collecting customer information from trusted sources, scrutinising it for inconsistencies, understanding the risks and responding effectively. While CDD provides tools to differentiate between lower and higher-risk customers, EDD provides measures to drill deeper into customer relationships, detect and thoroughly investigate potential wrongdoing. What are the benefits of KYC? KYC compliance prevents flagged individuals from taking advantage of the financial system and minimises disruption in the industry. When done right, it can positively impact your business reputation and credibility in the market, transforming relationships with your competitors and customers. KYC software is paramount to building an effective onboarding process and monitoring customer relationships for potential risks. It empowers you to make informed decisions and act on them. KYC software has many features to strengthen your compliance while unlocking opportunities for innovation and growth. It may or may not cover money laundering and fraud detection, which can be a deal breaker for regulated institutions. There are a multitude of options for you to consider. At the same time, you don’t have to choose one or the other and feel like you are missing out on something. Learn how our modular, customisable platform can fill in the gaps in your AML/KYC program and save you time – you won’t need to look for another provider again. Risk Scoring Know before you trust. Manage onboarding risks with Salv Risk Scoring Learn more Table of Contents What is KYC software? Features of KYC software Best KYC software and tools Salv Veriff Ondato Quantexa Fullcircl Jumio NorthRow Onfido Trulioo Togggle iDenfy How to choose KYC software Frequently Asked Questions about KYC software Share this story ×

---

All Blogs Published on July 28, 2024 Your Guide to KYC Onboarding Process and AML Requirements Team FOCAL Article In this story Exploring Gift Cards & Gift Card Fraud Types of Gift Card Fraud & How They Work Types of Gift Card Fraud & How They Work Transforming Operations with AI-Powered Compliance Unleashing Aseel’s Potential with Revolutionary Results Transformed Engagement Unblocks Marketing Success Unleashing Aseel’s Potential with Revolutionary Results Loved it? Get this in your Inbox Get My Copy Share This On Comply quickly with local/global regulations with 80% less setup time Request Demo Welcome to the world of KYC onboarding. The KYC onboarding process is crucial in building a secure and trustworthy relationship with your clients. This guide will explain the KYC onboarding process, explore its necessity, delve into regulatory requirements, and provide valuable insights on optimizing customer onboarding. As the gateway to establishing credibility, the KYC onboarding process ensures that businesses comply with regulatory standards and foster a foundation of trust with their clients. What is the KYC Onboarding Process? KYC, or Know Your Customer onboarding process is the gateway to establishing a secure relationship with clients. The KYC onboarding process involves collecting and verifying customer information to ensure compliance with regulatory standards and mitigate risks. A legal requirement for all financial institutions, KYC prevents money laundering, terrorism financing, and financial crimes. It's a comprehensive process to verify customer identities, protecting businesses from fraud and cyber threats. Read more: How Does Money Laundering Work? A Complete Guide for AML Compliance Why Do You Need a KYC Checklist? This checklist isn't just a set of boxes to tick; it's your roadmap to building trust and complying with regulatory standards. 1. Navigating Compliance: A KYC checklist ensures that your business adheres to regulatory requirements. From verifying the identity of customers to assessing potential risks, each item on the checklist plays a crucial role in maintaining compliance with Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and other regulations. 2. Building Trust: Trust is the cornerstone of any successful business relationship. A comprehensive KYC checklist helps you gather and verify essential customer information, instilling confidence and reliability from the beginning. It's not just about meeting legal standards but about showing commitment to transparency and security. 3. Efficiency in Onboarding: Efficiency is key in today's fast-paced business world. A well-structured KYC checklist streamlines the onboarding process. Collecting necessary information upfront eliminates delays and ensures a swift, hassle-free experience for your customers. 4. Risk Mitigation: Identifying and assessing risks is a fundamental aspect of the KYC process. A detailed checklist allows you to evaluate the potential risks associated with each customer, helping you make informed decisions and safeguard your business against financial crimes. 5. Adaptability to Industry Changes: The regulatory landscape is dynamic, and compliance requirements evolve. A KYC checklist keeps your onboarding process adaptable. Regular updates to the checklist ensure that your business stays ahead of regulatory changes, reducing the risk of non-compliance. Read more: What Is a KYC Document? Why Is It Necessary? Comply quickly with local/global regulations with 80% less setup time Request Demo Top 7 Benefits of the KYC Onboarding Process The KYC onboarding process is your golden ticket to a faster, more efficient onboarding experience that leaves both you and your clients smiling. 1. The Need for Speed: Faster, Efficient Onboarding Picture this: You've got all the right information upfront. Bam! Your onboarding process becomes a speed demon. No more waiting around – approvals are quicker, and your client applications are sailing through, thanks to the power of collecting the right kind of data. 2. Red Flags Wave Early: Spotting Risks in Advance With the right data in your arsenal, risk assessment becomes a superhero skill. Spotting red flags early means you're not just fighting financial crimes; you're winning. Whether it's fraud, money laundering, or suspicious behavior, you catch it way up the line. 3. Staying on the Right Side: Remaining Compliant Collecting the right KYC data is your ticket to steering clear of legal and financial penalties. Plus, it shields you from reputational damage and the dreaded loss of customer trust. Compliance isn't just a checkbox; it's your armor. 4. Reputational Boost: Trust in Action Early security checks aren't just for show; they scream trust. Prospective customers see a business that values safety, both theirs and yours. It's the kind of reputation that speaks volumes. 5. Smooth Sailing for Customer Satisfaction Guess what clients love? A seamless onboarding process. It's like a VIP treatment that sets the tone for a lasting relationship. A smoother experience equals happier clients who are more likely to stick around. It's the small details that make a big difference. 6. Market Insight: Know Your Scene The information gathered during KYC is for more than just the show. It's a goldmine for businesses wanting to understand their market. By cross-referencing applicant details, organizations get a backstage pass to market research. 7. Scaling Up: The Need for Speed on a Larger Scale Efficient onboarding means you can welcome more clients into the fold swiftly. Who Needs KYC During Onboarding? Every business dealing with clients or customers needs KYC during onboarding. Whether you're a bank, fintech startup, or any service provider, KYC is your first line of defense against fraud and financial crimes. Whether you're opening a new bank account, applying for a credit card, or joining a cryptocurrency exchange, KYC is a universal requirement. It's not just for financial giants; even the newest players in the market are embracing KYC to fortify their security measures. Read more: AML Compliance for Fintechs: Safeguarding Innovation & Trust KYC/AML Requirements for Customer Onboarding When it comes to onboarding customers, understanding KYC/AML onboarding requirements is crucial. It's not just about ticking regulatory boxes; it's your first step in building client trust. 1. Understanding KYC/AML: Know Your Customer and Anti-Money Laundering regulations go hand in hand. Complying with these standards is non-negotiable for a robust onboarding process. 2. Streamlined Verification: Implement efficient processes for identity verification, document authentication, and risk assessment. 3. Ongoing Monitoring: Regularly update customer profiles and monitor transactions to stay compliant with evolving regulations. Understanding the Differences Between KYC and KYB Onboarding Before diving deeper, let's clarify KYC vs. KYB. KYC focuses on individuals verifying their identity. On the other hand, KYB, or Know Your Business, ensures the legitimacy of companies entering the financial realm. Understanding the differences between KYC and KYB onboarding is like deciphering the keys to a different door that opens to individual or corporate clientele. When it comes to navigating these distinct paths, it's crucial to recognize that KYC and KYB checks aren't cut from the same cloth. Let's unravel the nuances and shed light on what sets them apart. KYB Onboarding Process KYB (Know Your Business) onboarding is the gateway to welcoming corporate clients securely and compliantly. Unlike the simplicity of KYC for individuals, KYB delves into the intricacies of a corporation's financial landscape, capital sources, AML risk, and organizational structure. The journey involves gathering a comprehensive set of information: 1. Basic Information Company details, VAT/GST number, and legal identity documents. 2 . Organizational Structure Identifying key personnel, legal representatives, and Ultimate Beneficiary Owners. 3. Banking Information Scrutinizing financial statements, bank transactions, and monitoring for suspicious activities. 4. Risk Assessment Evaluating business activities in various jurisdictions and conducting enhanced due diligence if needed. 5. AML Compliance Adhering to AML onboarding policies through customer due diligence , ongoing monitoring, and reporting suspicious transactions. Read more: AML Vs KYC: What is The Difference KYC Onboarding Process On the flip side, KYC (Know Your Customer) onboarding simplifies the process for individual clients. While it may seem less intricate compared to KYB, its importance remains paramount. The KYC onboarding process is the mandatory procedure for identifying and verifying an individual's identity, whether it's for opening a bank account or subscribing to financial services. To identify you, businesses require minimum data. Here's what the KYC onboarding journey entails: 1. Identification Documents Collecting and verifying government-issued documents like passports or ID cards. 2. Address Proof Confirming the correctness of residential or business addresses through utility bills or bank statements. 3. Contact Information Gathering phone numbers and email addresses for direct communication. How to Improve Customer Onboarding (KYC) Process Flow Now that we've explored the foundation, let's talk about optimizing the KYC onboarding process: 1. Streamlined Steps: ‍ Simplify the onboarding process with clear and concise steps. Each stage should be user-friendly and efficient, from creating an account to document verification. 2. User-Focused Approach: ‍ Place yourself in the shoes of the user. A seamless experience is not just a luxury; it's an expectation. The smoother the onboarding, the happier the customer. 3. Technology Integration: ‍ Leverage cutting-edge technology to expedite the process. Artificial intelligence and biometric authentication are game-changers in ensuring accuracy and speed. FOCAL: Your Partner in KYC Onboarding Excellence FOCAL emerges as a strategic ally in the quest for a flawless KYC onboarding process. How can this innovative solution elevate your experience? 1. Advanced Automation: FOCAL incorporates advanced automation to streamline KYC processes. From data collection to verification, expect efficiency at every turn. 2. Compliance Confidence: Navigate the intricate web of KYC/AML regulations with confidence. FOCAL keeps you ahead of compliance changes, ensuring your KYC onboarding processes are always up to par. 3. User-Centric Design: Designed with you in mind, FOCAL puts the user experience at the forefront. Intuitive interfaces and user-friendly features make onboarding a breeze. Conclusion Mastering the KYC process is paramount in the dynamic landscape of customer onboarding. Armed with knowledge, streamlined processes, and the support of tools like FOCAL, you can ensure a seamless and compliant onboarding experience for your clients. FAQs Q1. What sets KYB onboarding apart from KYC onboarding? KYB (Know Your Business) focuses on understanding the business entities, while KYC (Know Your Customer) is centered around individual customers. Q2. What are the primary phases involved in KYC? Initiate the process, collect information, verify identity, assess risk, and perform ongoing  monitoring Q3. What guidelines should be followed in KYC onboarding? Regulations vary by jurisdiction, but they generally involve compliance with KYC/AML standards set by financial authorities. Q4. Why is the KYC onboarding process so crucial to businesses? The KYC onboarding process is essential as AML obligations and industries mandate it focused on fraud prevention. It ensures a worthwhile and well-informed KYC process by verifying the identity of prospective customers and assessing their risk level. This enhances the organization's ability to avoid dealing with illegitimate individuals and provides insights into customers' propensity for financial crimes, safeguarding operations, reputation, and return on investment. In essence, is KYC onboarding an act of customer due diligence and enhanced diligence for businesses? Absolutely. It not only protects against potential risks but also reduces the chances of friction and false positives leading to customer churn and insult rates. Comply quickly with local/global regulations with 80% less setup time Request Demo How Aseel reduced onboarding time by more than 87% using FOCAL Learn how FOCAL empowered Aseel to achieve new milestones. Case Study Mastering Fraud Prevention: A Comprehensive Guide for KSA and MENA Businesses 51% of organizations fell victim to fraud in the last two years, don't be caught off guard, act proactively. Ebook Featured blog posts View More December 17, 2024 What Is Mortgage Fraud: Types, Red Flags, & Detection Tips Learn what is mortgage fraud, and explore its types, red flags, detection techniques, and examples to help protect yourself from financial loss. Team FOCAL Fraud 5min read December 8, 2024 What is Behavioral Analytics? Examples, Types and Tools Explore how behavioral analytics works in financial institutions, learn about its importance, and discover the tools & examples that drive effective strategies. Team FOCAL Fraud 5min read December 5, 2024 What is KYC Remediation? 4 Steps For AML Compliance Explore the 4 steps of KYC remediation, its importance, and how to create a successful process. See how FOCAL simplifies & streamlines KYC and AML remediation. Team FOCAL AML 5min read Previous See More February 20, 2024 The 3 Stages of Money Laundering: Reducing Risk in GCC & MENA Regions Use AI for seamless user ID verification, enabling faster onboarding, reduced fraud, and an enhanced customer experience. Martin Luther King Operations 5min read February 20, 2024 The 3 Stages of Money Laundering: Reducing Risk in GCC & MENA Regions Use AI for seamless user ID verification, enabling faster onboarding, reduced fraud, and an enhanced customer experience. Martin Luther King Operations 5min read February 20, 2024 The 3 Stages of Money Laundering: Reducing Risk in GCC & MENA Regions Use AI for seamless user ID verification, enabling faster onboarding, reduced fraud, and an enhanced customer experience. Martin Luther King Operations 5min read Case Study November, 2023 The 3 Stages of Money Laundering: Reducing Risk in GCC & MENA Regions Report November, 2023 The 3 Stages of Money Laundering: Reducing Risk in GCC & MENA Regions Case Study November, 2023 The 3 Stages of Money Laundering: Reducing Risk in GCC & MENA Regions Report November, 2023 The 3 Stages of Money Laundering: Reducing Risk in GCC & MENA Regions Report November, 2023 The 3 Stages of Money Laundering: Reducing Risk in GCC & MENA Regions Comments Leave Comment Leave a Reply Comment policy: We love comments and appreciate the time that readers spend to share ideas and give feedback. However, all comments are manually moderated and those deemed to be spam or solely promotional will be deleted. First Name* Last Name* Comment* Post Comment Thank you! Your submission has been received! Oops! Something went wrong while submitting the form. AI-Driven Precision in Fraud Risk and AML Compliance Streamline your operations and empower informed decision-making in emerging markets with us. Request Demo

---

Client onboarding: KYC and AML considerations — Financier Worldwide By using this website, you agree to our use of cookies. We use cookies to provide you with a great experience and to help our website run effectively. Decline Accept Welcome to Financier Worldwide. Please take a moment to join our free e-mailing list to receive notifications about the latest content. Click here. Home Latest Issue Issue Archive InDepth Features Power Players ExpertBriefing FW News Search Site About Contact Subscribe Editorial Submissions Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Menu Home Latest Issue Issue Archive InDepth Features Power Players ExpertBriefing FW News Search Site About Contact Subscribe Editorial Submissions Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions JOIN MAILING LIST Corporate Disputes Risk & Compliance Follow Us Client onboarding: KYC and AML considerations November 2022 |  FEATURE  |  FRAUD & CORRUPTION Financier Worldwide Magazine November 2022 Issue Integrating a new customer into established business structures – a process known as client onboarding – can be a challenging endeavour for any financial institution (FI) – a task often made more difficult due to today’s complex and volatile, post-pandemic corporate minefield. Certainly, it can come as little surprise that financial crimes such as money laundering and identity theft are prevalent across the financial services sector. Indeed, such is its pervasiveness that the adoption of anti-money laundering (AML) regulations and know your customer (KYC) processes is now imperative. However, when it comes to complying with complex and labour-intensive KYC and AML requirements, FIs have largely been fighting a losing battle thus far, with abandonment rates for new account openings stubbornly high. Meanwhile, compliance lapses have cost FIs billions in fines and penalties, with regulatory authorities issuing AML fines of over $1.9bn to FIs in 2021 alone. Yet, while KYC and AML go hand in hand, according to Advisory HQ, they should be viewed as two distinct areas of an FI’s security. Firstly, an AML policy covers safeguards to help prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, with one of those safeguards being to ensure the identity of the person completing financial transactions. Secondly, KYC refers to verifying that the information provided about an organisation is legitimate, and evaluating the risks of doing business with them. “Whether starting a new business or rethinking processes in an existing one, dealing with KYC and AML compliance can seem daunting,” acknowledges First AML in its 2021 ‘Implementing AML in your onboarding process’ report. “Compliance officers, audits, customer due diligence, copies of passports and risk assessments – they can be a lot to get your head around. “Most requirements focus on customer due diligence and risk assessment, so that is a good place to start,” continues the report. “By building KYC and AML into your customer onboarding procedures, an FI can make it easier to meet requirements without a lot of additional work. Rather than thinking of compliance as an added burden, it becomes a standard part of the process.” The KYC/AML lifecycle Once a potential client is on the radar, an FI needs to carry out a KYC/AML risk assessment that can effectively identify the prospect’s point of origin and the source of its funds, while, at the same time, adhering to often complex regulatory frameworks. “ When it comes to complying with complex and labour-intensive KYC and AML requirements, FIs have largely been fighting a losing battle thus far, with abandonment rates for new account openings stubbornly high. ” According to Advisory HQ, the AML/KYC client onboarding lifecycle involves five phases, as listed below. First, a customer identification programme (CIP). The first phase of the AML review process is the CIP, which involves collecting and verifying the new customer’s information and the forms of proof of identity that they provided along with the KYC form. Second, customer due diligence (CDD). As mandated by the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN), all FIs are required to have a written and well-documented CIP incorporated into their AML compliance programme. Third, enhanced due diligence (EDD). In cases where a client is deemed to pose a higher than acceptable risk, the case is escalated to the chief AML officer or a designee in a process known as EDD. When performing EDD, FIs should follow industry best practices and any new regulatory requirements. Fourth, account opening. Only after CDD and EDD has been approved should an account be opened in accordance with financial regulations and requirements. However, if after completing the process of KYC and AML evaluation of the customer the application poses too much of a risk, then the next process is for the chief AML compliance leader to reject the application. Finally, annual review. Depending on the risk classification of a client, FIs should conduct (ideally annually) a review of the client’s transactional activities if the KYC and AML process flow is to be properly adhered to. For high-risk clients, the average process is to conduct a review once a year or twice a year and for low to mid-level risk clients, every one to three years. “While there are several steps to ensure compliance with KYC and AML rules and ongoing monitoring, the process is designed to protect those in the financial industry and help prevent money laundering and terrorist funding activities,” adds Advisory HQ. The onboarding revolution An effective client onboarding function plays a vital role in creating strong first impressions with new clients and cementing existing relationships. At the same time, emerging technologies are revolutionising how FIs conduct client onboarding procedures across their organisations. Certainly, the pandemic played a significant role in accelerating FIs’ digital transformation and adoption of new technologies, with its effects on the global economy likely to be long term. Thus, in order to survive in a new digital-first economy, FIs will need to revolutionise and adapt their business operating models to the new normal. In addition, FIs would do well to remember that KYC and AML client onboarding is not simply another compliance box to tick, but a golden opportunity to build a competitive, differentiated customer experience with the potential to exceed all market expectations. © Financier Worldwide BY Fraser Tennant ©2001-2024 Financier Worldwide Ltd. All rights reserved.
Any statements expressed on this website are understood to be general opinions and should not be relied upon as legal, financial or any other form of professional advice. Opinions expressed do not necessarily represent the views of the authors’ current or previous employers, or clients. The publisher, authors and authors' firms are not responsible for any loss third parties may suffer in connection with information or materials presented on this website, or use of any such information or materials by any third parties.

---

KYC Onboarding – How to Ensure AML Compliance Cookie Break Time We use cookies to enhance the functionality of our website and its subdomains, and to personalize content and ads, always prioritizing your privacy and data security . You have the control to enable or disable optional cookies as you wish. For a deeper dive into our cookie usage, do check out our Cookie Policy . Manage cookies Accept all cookies Skip to content Browse by topic Verification Anti-fraud Regulatory compliance Product updates Browse by industry Crypto Fintech iGaming Marketplace Trading Transportation Search articles Switch to dark mode We are in social Featured Topics KYC AML Transaction Monitoring AI Customer Onboarding KYC/AML Apr 05, 2024 4 min read KYC Onboarding—How to Ensure AML Compliance Learn everything about the KYC onboarding process, why you should implement it, and the best way to do it. Daria Sav Senior editor Highlights What is KYC onboarding? KYC onboarding and AML Who needs KYC onboarding? KYC and AML requirements by countries CDD and EDD in customer onboarding How to Improve the Customer Onboarding (KYC) Process KYC Onboarding Solutions FAQ Know Your Customer (KYC) onboarding is the first line of defense against fraudsters—and the first thing a customer sees when dealing with a company. That’s why it’s critical to build this process properly, ensuring a high level of  protection and a flawless customer experience. To simplify the KYC onboarding process, we at Sumsub prepared this guide to staying compliant with regulators and best practices for client onboarding. What is KYC onboarding? Know Your Customer (KYC) onboarding is a set of legal procedures businesses must conduct before working with a new customer. These procedures include collecting and verifying certain data about customers. The minimum data businesses need in order to identify their customers includes: Name Date of birth Address The KYC onboarding process is required for compliance with Anti-Money Laundering (AML) regulations. The exact list of information and documents varies from country to country. So it’s necessary to check the AML regulations and guidelines of the relevant jurisdiction and make sure that the company stays up to date with the new regulations. To verify customer data, businesses need to obtain authentic and valid documentary evidence from the customer. This can be an ID card or Passport (or any other valid identity document) and a utility bill (or some other proof of address document like a tax bill, voter roll, or bank statement). KYC onboarding and AML Customer onboarding requirements usually depend on the regulations of a given jurisdiction. In many countries, it’s enough to remotely verify documents and perform a liveness check . But in Germany , for instance, businesses have to onboard customers through a video identification process, which includes a range of mandatory steps such as an interview. While interviews are not explicitly required for all KYC procedures in Germany, financial institutions may choose to conduct interviews with customers as part of their CDD process. Interviews can help gather additional information about the customer, assess the risk profile, and ensure compliance with regulatory requirements. Companies need to adjust their KYC workflows to specific customer groups. This means building processes that: Ensure AML compliance Can be tailored to the relevant industry and the business’s specifics) Simplify the customer experience by making onboarding easy, thereby increasing conversion rates) Keep costs low To make the onboarding process easier, companies can delegate their KYC duties to a verification provider. Who needs KYC onboarding? Any AML-obligated industry has to apply KYC procedures during customer onboarding, though non-obliged businesses can also benefit from it. Regulated businesses include financial institutions and designated non-financial businesses and professions such as: Financial services iGaming Virtual Asset Service Providers (VASPs) Trading Real estate agents High-value dealers, etc. Non-regulated businesses, such as carsharing services and marketplaces , are also encouraged to apply KYC procedures to prevent fraud and avoid financial and reputational losses. KYC and AML requirements by countries Here you can find the list of the KYC and AML requirements in different countries: Austria Brazil Canada Chile Germany Hungary India Indonesia Israel Malaysia Nigeria Philippines Saudi Arabia Thailand UAE UK CDD and EDD in customer onboarding When it comes to Customer Due Diligence (CDD) , companies must implement the following procedures as part of the Know Your Customer checks: Customer identification—acquiring the customer’s personal data and verifying the identity of their clients or customers of. Customer identification is a critical component of Know Your Customer (KYC) requirements, which aim to prevent financial crimes such as money laundering, fraud, and terrorist financing. Customer verification—ensuring that this data is not stolen or forged by verifying it against documents or other reliable sources independent of the customer. Selfie check or face authentication—determining whether the true document holder is present during the onboarding process and is not under duress or there is someone else impersonating Address verification—determining whether the customer comes from the claimed region. Geolocation data such as detection of IP address can also provide supporting evidence as to the location of a client. Beneficial ownership check—identifying the beneficial owner, where relevant, and verifying their identity. Understanding the purpose of the business relationship—assessing, and, where appropriate, obtaining information on the purpose and intended nature of the business relationship or transactions. Regulators determine the required information, documents, and verification methods for passing KYC. But companies can have their own specific requirements for the customer onboarding process. For suspicious customers, an Enhanced Due Diligence (EDD) check should be performed. This can include the following steps on top of standard CDD: Obtaining specific information about the customer, such as their economic profile Determining the customer’s beneficial owner Establishing the purpose and intended nature of the business relationship How to Improve the Customer Onboarding (KYC) Process Automating the verification process can make a big difference. From Sumsub’s experience, automation reduces costs by 40%, speeds up verification to one minute, and frees up company resources, with employees spending 70% less time on compliance tasks. With right KYC provider, businesses can also benefit from: High-pass verification rate worldwide—this includes even markets that are more challenging in terms of the verification pass rates Anti-fraud detection —this includes deepfake detection, fraud network detection, phone/email risk assessment, device fingerprinting, and much more Non-document verification—the technology allows companies to easily verify the identity and other information about their customers without documentation Database validation—companies can validate user data as an additional security level Workflow builder—the technology allows companies to build custom verification flow with no code KYC Onboarding Solutions Not all customers can be onboarded the same way. That’s why it’s essential for companies to customize their onboarding process. Doing this manually is cumbersome, which is why digital solutions are a great help. Sumsub’s digital solution enables the following: Verification level creation—you can implement different levels for customers, each of which will have its own verification steps (e.g., ID Verification, Selfie Check, Proof of Address, and others). You can also select the exact documents your company is willing to accept. All of the steps can be tailored to the needs of the company and the regulatory requirements Workflow builder—you can specify the track each customer will take at the onboarding stage. The track can be tailored to different countries and risk groups. Depending on these factors, you can create different scenarios with no code required. UI customization—it allows companies to customize the user interface by creating their own designs or using pre-made ones. The customization also takes place with no coding required. You can read more about the solution in our tour . A standard verification level consists of the following steps: Providing personal information Uploading an identity document Passing a liveness check In addition, businesses can use settings to specify supported countries and documents.  For example, a company may choose not to accept a certain document (e.g., a Residence Permit) in one country, while accepting it elsewhere. FAQ What is the customer onboarding process? Know Your Customer (KYC) onboarding is a set of legal procedures businesses must conduct before working with a new customer. These procedures include collecting and verifying certain data about customers. What are the steps to client onboarding? Customer identification Customer verification Selfie check or face authentication Address verification Beneficial ownership check Establishing the purpose of the business relationship What are the requirements for KYC onboarding compliance? Customer onboarding requirements usually depend on the regulations of a given jurisdiction. In many countries, it’s enough to remotely verify documents and perform a liveness check. The minimum data businesses need in order to identify their customers includes: Name Date of birth Address The KYC onboarding process is required for compliance with Anti-Money Laundering (AML) regulations. The exact list of information and documents varies from country to country. So it’s necessary to check the AML regulations and guidelines of the relevant jurisdiction and make sure that the company stays up to date with the new regulations. Share this article Fraud Prevention KYC Anti-fraud Nov 27, 2024 6 min read From AI to Fraud Democratization and Real Identity Theft: Fraud Trends 2024-2025 Anti-fraud Nov 15, 2024 5 min read Bonus Abuse in Gambling—How to Detect and Prevent It (2024) Anti-fraud Sep 26, 2024 4 min read Proof of Address in the UK—A Complete Guide (2024) Explore more Verification Aug 23, 2024 5 min read KYC Verification: Full Guide to Know Your Customer Compliance Oraz Kereibayev Content Manager Anti-fraud Aug 15, 2024 4 min read Arbitrage in Sports Betting: How Can Businesses Detect It? (2024) Polina Rebeka Content Manager Regulatory compliance Aug 09, 2024 3 min read Proof of Address Guide: Why It’s Necessary and When It’s Mandatory (2024) Polina Rebeka Content Manager Pricing Products User Verification Business Verification Transaction Monitoring Fraud Prevention ID Verification Address Verification Video Identification AML Screening Workflow Builder Travel Rule Non-Doc Verification Fraud Network Detection Account Takeover Database Validation Email/Phone Verification Biometric Verification Document Verification Age Verification Reusable KYC Crypto Check Liveness Customizable Analytics Behavioral Fraud Detection Multiple Accounts Payment Protection Solutions Industries Fintech Transportation Crypto Trading Payments Marketplaces iGaming Carsharing Roles Compliance officer Anti-Fraud team Product manager Resources Guides & Reports Success stories Events & Webinars Blog The Podcast Product Tours Courses Product Documentation API Reference Service status Release notes Supported documents Company About us Newsroom Partners Careers Our Journey Security & compliance Technologies Contacts Pricing Sum and Substance Ltd (UK) is registered with the Information Commissioner’s Office in line with the Data
				Protection Act 2018. Supports 256-bit TLS encryption on every device Media/Industry analysts pr@sumsub.com Sales/Other requests hello@sumsub.com ID verification service Identity Verification Service KYC verification USA KYC in the UK KYC in Austria KYC in Brazil KYC in China KYC in Cyprus KYC in Estonia KYC in Germany KYC in Hong Kong KYC in Israel KYC in Indonesia KYC in Italy KYC in Japan KYC in Latvia KYC in Malaysia KYC in Mexico KYC in Netherlands KYC in New Zealand KYC in Norway KYC in Philippines KYC in Poland KYC in Portugal KYC in Singapore KYC in Slovakia KYC in South Africa KYC in South Korea KYC in Spain KYC in Switzerland KYC in Thailand KYC in USA Sumsub logo © Sum and Substance Ltd (UK) , 2015-2024. All rights reserved. Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Terms & Conditions Terms Of Use CCPA Notification Data Disposal And Destruction Data Protection Registration Number: ZA222205. Company Registration Number: 09688671. Address: 30 St. Mary Axe, London, England, EC3A 8BF