Payments KYC Best Practices to Reduce Money Laundering Risks Written by Erez Greenberg Published Mar 16, 2023 Last Update Oct 14, 2024 Link Copied! Table of contents KYC measures to reduce money laundering risks KYC best practices: 5 key factors Link Copied! One of the main challenges financial institutions face is ensuring that all the funds passing through their system are legitimate. According to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), the annual amount of money laundering worldwide is estimated to be between 2%-5% of global GDP . To combat that, banks and companies licensed to hold and transfer funds in major global markets – such as payroll & payments platforms – are performing regular know-your-customer (KYC) reviews: a screening process used to ensure that the organization is not assisting in illegal operations such as money laundering , sanction violations, financial crimes, or any other nefarious activity. Every payroll delivery, for example, starts with a KYC process. Unfortunately, most KYC processes remain manual, making them prone to errors and quite expensive. Very few organizations have opted to automate large parts of the process, even though automation can significantly improve its efficiency; According to a McKinsey study , organizations that do automate KYC have been able to reduce case-handling times to 20%-30% of the time it takes their competitors, and optimize their payroll payments process. What is KYC in Banking? KYC is a mandatory process banks follow when a client opens an account as well as throughout the customer’s relationship with the bank. During the process, banking institutions collect at least four pieces of identifying information from a client, such as their name, date of birth, address, and identification number. Banks may also take additional steps to screen. Banks use KYC to: Prevent financial crimes: banks can KYC risk assessment to prevent customers from using them for money laundering, terrorist financing, and other financial crimes Protecting customers: KYC risk assessment also helps protect customers from identity theft and fraud Establish trust: KYC helps banks build trust and transparency with their clients Understand customers: KYC helps banks understand their customers and their financial situation Some financial institution employees earn KYC certifications to perform fundamental due diligence activities and escalate the highest-risk cases. Know Your Customer (KYC) is a due diligence process that financial institutions use to verify the identity of their clients and assess their potential risks. The process is designed to prevent financial crimes such as money laundering and fraud. KYC measures to reduce money laundering risks KYC regulations or customer due diligence, consist of ID checks that comply with national regulations. KYC measures include: Customer identification and verification In the United States, customer Identification and Verification (CIV) is usually the first step in the KYC process and is required by law for all financial institutions. It involves obtaining information about the customer – such as name, address, date of birth, and government-issued identification documents – and confirming that the customer is who they claim to be. This can be done by verifying the authenticity of their identification documents, or by using biometric verification tools such as facial recognition or fingerprint scanning. KYC verification processes can vary between countries. Here’s a look at how different nations handle CIV. Canada Regulated companies report to the Financial Transactions and Reports Analysis Centre of Canada (FINTRAC). The Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act (PCMLTFA) law covers Canada federal KYC and AML regulations. United Kingdom The UK has robust AML and KYC laws and regulations. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) — the UK regulator for financial services firms and financial markets — takes a forward-thinking, risk-based approach to innovation. India The Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) as well as the government-created PML Rules regulate India KYC efforts in India. Regulators such as the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), and the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) interpret these rules for applicable entities. South Africa The Financial Intelligence Centre Act (FICA) covers AML and South Africa KYC initiatives . To oversee FICA, the Government of South Africa established the Financial Sector Conduct Authority (FSCA) to regulate financial institutions such as banks, insurers, retirement funds and administrators, and market infrastructures. Ukraine Ukraine’s AML framework includes the Law of Ukraine on Prevention and Counteraction to Legalization (Laundering) of Proceeds from Crime, Financing of Terrorism, and Financing of Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction. This legislation regulates and enforces AML and counter-terrorist financing (CFT) activities in the KYC Ukraine . Customer due diligence Customer Due Diligence (CDD) is the process of assessing the risk associated with customers and their transaction activity. It involves gathering and analysing information, such as the customer’s source of funds, occupation, transaction history, and the purpose of the account. The level of due diligence required can vary depending on the customer’s risk profile. Enhanced due diligence Enhanced due diligence (EDD) is a thorough and rigorous process that is applied to customers with a higher risk profile, such as politically exposed persons, customers from high-risk countries, or those with complex ownership structures. EDD involves gathering in-depth information about the customer, which may include the nature of their business relationships and the expected transaction activity. In addition, EDD requires a frequent and ongoing review of the customer’s information to ensure that the risk assessment remains accurate and up to date. Monitoring transactions An ongoing inspection of customer transactions to identify any unusual or suspicious activity that may require further investigation. Monitoring transactions typically involves three key steps: Establishing customer transaction patterns: analyzing the customer’s historical transaction data to understand their typical transaction patterns, such as the types of transactions they make, their frequency, and the amounts involved. Monitoring for unusual or suspicious activity: using a variety of techniques to identify abnormal activity based on factors such as transaction amounts, frequency, location, and the type of transaction. For example, a series of transactions just below the reporting threshold, or transactions to and from high-risk countries or individuals, may be flagged for further investigation. Investigating and reporting suspicious activity: when unusual or suspicious activity is identified, financial institutions are required to investigate further to determine if it represents a genuine risk or if there is a reasonable explanation for the activity. If the activity is determined to be suspicious, the financial institution must report it to the relevant regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies. This may involve freezing the customer’s account, filing a Suspicious Activity Report (SAR), and cooperating with authorities in any subsequent investigation. Sanctions screening The process involves screening individuals and entities against government and international sanctions lists to ensure compliance with national and international sanctions regimes. Sanctions screening typically includes the following steps: Identification of individuals or entities: financial institutions must first identify the individuals or entities that require screening. This may include potential customers, business partners, vendors, or other parties that are subject to KYC requirements. The identification can be done through customer onboarding processes or periodic reviews of existing customers. Sanctions list screening: these lists may include individuals, companies, or countries subject to economic or trade sanctions, or other forms of restrictions. Screening tools can include both manual and automated processes, and may use fuzzy matching, aliases, and other techniques to identify potential matches. Investigation and resolution of potential matches: when potential matches are identified, financial institutions are required to investigate further to determine if the customer is indeed subject to economic or trade sanctions or if there is a reasonable explanation for the match. This may involve reviewing additional documentation or information, conducting further due diligence, or contacting the individual or entity in question for additional information.If a true match is identified, the financial institution is required to take appropriate action, which may include reporting the match to the relevant regulatory authorities, freezing the account or transaction, or terminating the relationship. Beneficial ownership This critical KYC measure is used to identify the natural person who ultimately owns or controls a legal entity, trust, or other structure. The process of beneficial ownership identification usually includes the following steps: Identification of legal entities: Financial institutions must first identify the legal entities that require beneficial ownership information. This may include companies, trusts, partnerships, or other structures used for business or investment purposes. Obtaining beneficial ownership information: from details such as the beneficial owner’s name, date of birth, nationality, and address, to in-depth information on the nature and extent of the person’s ownership or control over the legal entity. Verification of beneficial ownership information: the information collected from the customer must be verified using reliable and independent sources, such as government registers, public databases, or other trusted sources. The verification process may also involve cross-checking information provided by the customer with information obtained from other sources or conducting further due diligence. Ongoing monitoring: financial institutions are required to continuously monitor beneficial ownership information and update it as necessary. This includes monitoring changes in ownership or control of the legal entity , as well as changes in the information provided by the customer. Employee training The purpose of this measure is to promote a culture of compliance and ensure that staff members are equipped with the knowledge and skills needed to identify and mitigate the risks associated with money laundering. An effective training program will identify the specific training needs of their staff members, based on their roles, level of experience, and the specific risks associated with their job function; develop training materials tailored to these needs; Make sure all staff members receive the necessary training regularly; and assess the effectiveness of the program by testing the employees’ knowledge and understanding of KYC requirements and processes. Documenting and record-keeping In this part of the KYC process, the financial institution collects and documents information about the customer and keeps records of this information for future reference. The documents required may vary depending on the account type or the jurisdiction where the institution operates, but typical documents include government-issued identification documents, such as a passport or driver’s license, proof of address, such as a utility bill or bank statement, and tax identification numbers. Once the documents have been collected and verified, the institution creates a record of the customer’s information, which is then stored securely in a database. Reviewing and updating the process By regularly reviewing and updating the KYC process, institutions can ensure that their procedures are relevant and effective in mitigating risk. Regular reviews help identify potential issues with the process – such as gaps in the documentation required or inconsistencies in the process – that may hinder the identification of potential money laundering. Based on the results of the review, the financial institution should update the KYC process accordingly. As new and relevant technologies emerge, the KYC process should also be updated to include them. For example, artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) can be used to analyze customer data and identify suspicious activities. KYC best practices: 5 key factors Improving KYC processes can benefit businesses in several ways. It starts with better risk management, i.e., the ability to make more informed decisions about whether or not to engage in a business relationship. Another benefit is an enhanced customer experience; a well-designed KYC process can improve the overall customer experience by reducing the time and effort required for verification. But the most important benefit of an upgraded KYC process is improving the bottom line. According to several McKinsey studies, data-quality problems account for up to 26% of KYC operational costs . Most of these problems are a result of manual practices. By automating KYC processes, businesses can save resources and staff time, reducing their costs significantly. To reap all these benefits, businesses must employ KYC best practices. The following factors are essential in every effective KYC process: Customer risk management. To achieve a more accurate, comprehensive, and almost immediate understanding of customer risk, prioritize customer risk assessments when developing KYC policies and designing processes. Optimize the customer experience digitally. Transform the customer experience by creating a self-service client portal that customizes the process to their needs. Ensure the portal’s success by hiring a customer-service team with global and local expertise in KYC to provide support. Use KYC risk analytics. Establish a structured approach to data management that uses automated and adaptable data feeds from both internal and external sources. Utilize this data to carry out advanced KYC risk analytics that will allow you to gain a competitive edge. Adopt automated processes and workflows. By automating KYC processes and workflows, businesses can increase their capacity and dedicate more time to high-value activities like customer risk assessment. Establish a KYC center of excellence. The CoE should focus on performance management throughout the KYC process, for example, by highlighting customer-experience metrics as part of the analysts’ evaluation. Streamline KYC processes and optimize global payroll payments Ensuring that your global workforce is paid accurately, on time, and with local compliance requires the right technology. Papaya Global has built the first fully automated global payroll and payments platform , which streamlines KYC processes, supports all categories of employment, and allows businesses to process global payroll and make payments to employees, authorities, and benefits vendors through a single dashboard. Schedule a demo today to hear more about it. SUBSCRIBE TO OUR BLOG First name * Last name * utm_content utm_campaign utm_medium utm_source Your personal data will be processed in accordance with our privacy policy. You may unsubscribe at any point. FAQs What are the 3 components of KYC? The three key components of KYC are customer identification (obtaining and recording the customer’s personal information), customer due diligence (verifying the accuracy of the customer’s information and assessing the customer’s risk level), and ongoing monitoring (continuously reviewing customer information and assessing changes in the customer’s risk profile over time). What is a risk management process in KYC? Risk management is an important part of the KYC process, as it helps companies identify and mitigate potential risks associated with their customers. After obtaining and verifying their customer’s personal information, businesses assess the level of risk associated with doing business with them and implement measures to mitigate any potential risks. How can I improve my KYC process? The best way to improve your KYC process is by automating the data collection required for it. That will improve risk management, enhance the customer experience, and allow you to save resources and staff time, reducing costs significantly. What is KYC in compliance? KYC is an important part of compliance in the financial industry and is required by regulations in many countries to prevent money laundering, terrorist financing, and other financial crimes. The purpose of KYC in compliance is to ensure that companies have accurate and up-to-date information about their customers so that they can assess the risk of doing business with them and prevent any illegal activities. Is KYC a regulatory requirement? Yes, KYC is a regulatory requirement in many countries and is typically mandated by the financial regulatory bodies of each country. Financial institutions such as banks, investment firms, payroll and payments companies, and other entities involved in financial transactions are generally required to implement KYC measures to comply with anti-money laundering (AML) and counter-terrorist financing (CTF) regulations. Table of contents KYC measures to reduce money laundering risks KYC best practices: 5 key factors Importance of a Dedicated Payments Solution Learn how to simplify complex payroll payments with Papaya Global's embedded technology Download Free Guide

---

Top 10 KYC Software & Tools for 2024 – Rated and Reviewed Consent Details [#IABV2SETTINGS#] About This website uses cookies SEON and our partners use cookies to enable general website functions, remember your preferences, analyze interactions, and display relevant content and ads. By clicking [Allow all], you consent to these cookies and confirm that you've read and understood our Cookie Notice. Consent Selection Necessary Preferences Statistics Personalization and Marketing Show details Necessary 26 Necessary cookies make our website usable by enabling website functions. The website functions requested by you do not work without these cookies. Cookiebot 2 Learn more about this provider 1.gif Used to count the number of sessions to the website, necessary for optimizing CMP product delivery. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : Pixel Tracker CookieConsent Stores the user's cookie consent state for the current domain Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie Google 4 Learn more about this provider Some of the data collected by this provider is for the purposes of personalization and measuring advertising effectiveness. test_cookie Used to check if the user's browser supports cookies. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie _ga Registers a unique ID that is used to generate statistical data on how the visitor uses the website. Maximum Storage Duration : 2 years Type : HTTP Cookie _ga_# Used by Google Analytics to collect data on the number of times a user has visited the website as well as dates for the first and most recent visit. Maximum Storage Duration : 2 years Type : HTTP Cookie _gid Registers a unique ID that is used to generate statistical data on how the visitor uses the website. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie LinkedIn 1 Learn more about this provider li_gc Stores the user's cookie consent state for the current domain Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie cdn.seon.io 1 cookietest This cookie is used to determine if the visitor has accepted the cookie consent box. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie demo.arcade.software 1 sentry-offline#queue Detects and logs potential errors on third-party provided functions on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : IndexedDB g2.com g2crowd.com hsforms.com vimeo.com workable.com 7 __cf_bm [x7] This cookie is used to distinguish between humans and bots. This is beneficial for the website, in order to make valid reports on the use of their website. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie hsforms.com vimeo.com 3 _cfuvid [x3] This cookie is a part of the services provided by Cloudflare - Including load-balancing, deliverance of website content and serving DNS connection for website operators. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie seon.io 3 __mp_opt_in_out_# Stores the user's cookie consent state for the current domain Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie debug This cookie is used to detect errors on the website - this information is sent to the website's support staff in order to optimize the visitor's experience on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage wpEmojiSettingsSupports This cookie is part of a bundle of cookies which serve the purpose of content delivery and presentation. The cookies keep the correct state of font, blog/picture sliders, color themes and other website settings. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage www.g2.com 3 datadome Used in context with the website's BotManager. The BotManager detects, categorizes and compiles reports on potential bots trying to access the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie AWSALB Registers which server-cluster is serving the visitor. This is used in context with load balancing, in order to optimize user experience. Maximum Storage Duration : 7 days Type : HTTP Cookie AWSALBCORS Registers which server-cluster is serving the visitor. This is used in context with load balancing, in order to optimize user experience. Maximum Storage Duration : 7 days Type : HTTP Cookie x.clearbitjs.com 1 pfjs%3Acookies Used to check if the user's browser supports cookies. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie Preferences 2 Preferences cookies enable our website to remember information that changes the way the website behaves or looks, like your preferred language or the region that you are in. Acast 1 Learn more about this provider AcastLang This cookie is used to determine the preferred language of the visitor and sets the language accordingly on the website, if possible. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage Hubspot 1 Learn more about this provider messagesUtk Stores a unique ID string for each chat-box session. This allows the website-support to see previous issues and reconnect with the previous supporter. Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie Statistics 17 Statistics cookies help us to understand how you interact with and use our website by collecting and reporting statistical or analytics information. G2Crowd 1 Learn more about this provider g2tracking Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage Google 1 Learn more about this provider Some of the data collected by this provider is for the purposes of personalization and measuring advertising effectiveness. _gat Used by Google Analytics to throttle request rate Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie Hotjar 4 Learn more about this provider hjActiveViewportIds This cookie contains an ID string on the current session. This contains non-personal information on what subpages the visitor enters – this information is used to optimize the visitor's experience. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage hjViewportId Saves the user's screen size in order to adjust the size of images on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage _hjSession_# Collects statistics on the visitor's visits to the website, such as the number of visits, average time spent on the website and what pages have been read. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie _hjSessionUser_# Collects statistics on the visitor's visits to the website, such as the number of visits, average time spent on the website and what pages have been read. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie Hubspot 4 Learn more about this provider __hssc Identifies if the cookie data needs to be updated in the visitor's browser. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie __hssrc Used to recognise the visitor's browser upon reentry on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie __hstc Sets a unique ID for the session. This allows the website to obtain data on visitor behaviour for statistical purposes. Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie hubspotutk Sets a unique ID for the session. This allows the website to obtain data on visitor behaviour for statistical purposes. Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie Workable 1 Learn more about this provider wmc Used to track which users have shown interest in what job postings. The cookie ensures that the most relevant job postings are shown to the specific user. Maximum Storage Duration : 400 days Type : HTTP Cookie demo.arcade.software 2 ajs_anonymous_id This cookie is used to count how many times a website has been visited by different visitors - this is done by assigning the visitor an ID, so the visitor does not get registered twice. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage ajs_anonymous_id This cookie is used to identify a specific visitor - this information is used to identify the number of specific visitors on a website. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie g2.com 1 _g2_session_id Sets a unique ID for the session. This allows the website to obtain data on visitor behaviour for statistical purposes. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie seon.io 1 signup-statistics-data Pending Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage www.g2.com 1 events_distinct_id Sets a unique ID for the session. This allows the website to obtain data on visitor behaviour for statistical purposes. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie x.clearbitjs.com 1 cb%3Atest Collects data on the user's visits to the website, such as the number of visits, average time spent on the website and what pages have been loaded with the purpose of generating reports for optimising the website content. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie Personalization and Marketing 44 Personalization and Marketing cookies are used to track you on our website or across websites and devices, and to display you content and ads that are relevant and engaging for you on our websites or third-party websites, including on social media. Google 4 Learn more about this provider Some of the data collected by this provider is for the purposes of personalization and measuring advertising effectiveness. IDE Used by Google DoubleClick to register and report the website user's actions after viewing or clicking one of the advertiser's ads with the purpose of measuring the efficacy of an ad and to present targeted ads to the user. Maximum Storage Duration : 400 days Type : HTTP Cookie NID Registers a unique ID that identifies a returning user's device. The ID is used for targeted ads. Maximum Storage Duration : 6 months Type : HTTP Cookie pagead/1p-user-list/# Tracks if the user has shown interest in specific products or events across multiple websites and detects how the user navigates between sites. This is used for measurement of advertisement efforts and facilitates payment of referral-fees between websites. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : Pixel Tracker _gcl_au Used by Google AdSense for experimenting with advertisement efficiency across websites using their services. Maximum Storage Duration : 3 months Type : HTTP Cookie Hubspot 1 Learn more about this provider __ptq.gif Sends data to the marketing platform Hubspot about the visitor's device and behaviour. Tracks the visitor across devices and marketing channels. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : Pixel Tracker LinkedIn 2 Learn more about this provider bcookie Used by the social networking service, LinkedIn, for tracking the use of embedded services. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie lidc Used by the social networking service, LinkedIn, for tracking the use of embedded services. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie Twitter Inc. 2 Learn more about this provider i/jot/embeds Sets a unique ID for the visitor, that allows third party advertisers to target the visitor with relevant advertisement. This pairing service is provided by third party advertisement hubs, which facilitates real-time bidding for advertisers. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : Pixel Tracker RichHistory Collects data on visitors' preferences and behaviour on the website - This information is used make content and advertisement more relevant to the specific visitor. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage YouTube 23 Learn more about this provider #-# Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage __Secure-ROLLOUT_TOKEN Pending Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie iU5q-!O9@$ Registers a unique ID to keep statistics of what videos from YouTube the user has seen. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage LAST_RESULT_ENTRY_KEY Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie LogsDatabaseV2:V#||LogsRequestsStore Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : IndexedDB nextId Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie remote_sid Necessary for the implementation and functionality of YouTube video-content on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie requests Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie ServiceWorkerLogsDatabase#SWHealthLog Necessary for the implementation and functionality of YouTube video-content on the website. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : IndexedDB TESTCOOKIESENABLED Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 day Type : HTTP Cookie VISITOR_INFO1_LIVE Tries to estimate the users' bandwidth on pages with integrated YouTube videos. Maximum Storage Duration : 180 days Type : HTTP Cookie YSC Registers a unique ID to keep statistics of what videos from YouTube the user has seen. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie yt.innertube::nextId Registers a unique ID to keep statistics of what videos from YouTube the user has seen. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage ytidb::LAST_RESULT_ENTRY_KEY Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage YtIdbMeta#databases Used to track user’s interaction with embedded content. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : IndexedDB yt-player-user-settings Pending Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-cast-available Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-cast-installed Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-connected-devices Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-device-id Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-fast-check-period Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-session-app Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage yt-remote-session-name Stores the user's video player preferences using embedded YouTube video Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTML Local Storage demo.arcade.software 2 ajs_user_id This cookie is used to collect data on the visitor's behavior on the website - this information can be used to assign the visitor to a visitor segment, based on common preferences. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie ajs_user_id Collects data on visitors' preferences and behaviour on the website - This information is used make content and advertisement more relevant to the specific visitor. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage demo.arcade.software x.clearbitjs.com 3 __tld__ [x3] Used to track visitors on multiple websites, in order to present relevant advertisement based on the visitor's preferences. Maximum Storage Duration : Session Type : HTTP Cookie seon.io 2 __mpq_#_# Collects data on user behaviour and interaction in order to optimize the website and make advertisement on the website more relevant. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage mp_#_mixpanel Pending Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie tag.clearbitscripts.com 2 cb_group_properties Collects data on visitor behaviour from multiple websites, in order to present more relevant advertisement - This also allows the website to limit the number of times that they are shown the same advertisement. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage cb_user_traits Collects data on visitor behaviour from multiple websites, in order to present more relevant advertisement - This also allows the website to limit the number of times that they are shown the same advertisement. Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage x.clearbitjs.com 3 cb_anonymous_id Collects data on visitor behaviour from multiple websites, in order to present more relevant advertisement - This also allows the website to limit the number of times that they are shown the same advertisement. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie cb_group_id Collects data on visitors. This information is used to assign visitors into segments, making website advertisement more efficient. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie cb_user_id Collects data on visitor behaviour from multiple websites, in order to present more relevant advertisement - This also allows the website to limit the number of times that they are shown the same advertisement. Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie Functional 3 Functional cookies are used to ensure the proper functioning of our website. cdn.seon.io 3 inersc2a2k Pending Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : HTML Local Storage f3k2kqs7xc Pending Maximum Storage Duration : 1 year Type : HTTP Cookie ytkufm9oaz#ytkufm9oaz Pending Maximum Storage Duration : Persistent Type : IndexedDB Cross-domain consent [#BULK_CONSENT_DOMAINS_COUNT#] [#BULK_CONSENT_TITLE#] List of domains your consent applies to: [#BULK_CONSENT_DOMAINS#] Cookie declaration last updated on 12/4/24 by Cookiebot [#IABV2_TITLE#] [#IABV2_BODY_INTRO#] [#IABV2_BODY_LEGITIMATE_INTEREST_INTRO#] [#IABV2_BODY_PREFERENCE_INTRO#] [#IABV2_LABEL_PURPOSES#] [#IABV2_BODY_PURPOSES_INTRO#] [#IABV2_BODY_PURPOSES#] [#IABV2_LABEL_FEATURES#] [#IABV2_BODY_FEATURES_INTRO#] [#IABV2_BODY_FEATURES#] [#IABV2_LABEL_PARTNERS#] [#IABV2_BODY_PARTNERS_INTRO#] [#IABV2_BODY_PARTNERS#] Scope . This cookie notice (“Cookie Notice”) provides you with information on how SEON Technologies Kft. (“SEON” or “we”) and our social media advertising, analytics, etc. partners use cookies on seon.io and docs.seon.io. Cookies . Cookies are small text files that are sent to your device by the browser upon request of the websites. When this notice mentions cookies it should be understood to include similar technologies (e.g. pixel tags, web beacons, local storage, etc.). The cookies that we provide or set on your device while you are visiting our websites are called first party cookies. The cookies that our partners provide or set on your device are third party cookies. Each cookie lasts for a different period of time. Session cookies will last only while your browser is open. When you close the browser, this cookie will be deleted automatically. Persistent cookies will survive even after closing the browser. For example, we will recognize your device via these cookies when you open the browser again. Further information about cookies. Learn more about the purposes of cookies, the duration of the operation of cookies, our social media, advertising, analytics, etc. partners that use cookies on our websites under “Details”. Data collected about you. We and our partners process the cookie ID and related data such as information about your device, the functioning of our website, your preferences etc. Please note that normally we are not able to identify you based on these data, therefore they are normally not considered personal data. If, on the basis of specific circumstances, we are able to identify you based on these data, we inform you that we process your personal data in accordance with our Privacy Notice. Recipients . SEON shares the cookie ID and related data with the following recipients: cloud providers, customer relationship management (CRM) providers, integration tool providers, instant messaging providers, video conferencing tool providers, UI/UX tool providers, social media providers, online advertising platforms and agencies, marketing and analytics tools providers. For further information about our data sharing practices please see our Privacy Notice. Your choices. We use “Functionality and Preferences”, “Personalization and Marketing” and “Statistics” cookies on the basis of you consent. You can at any time, provide, change or withdraw your consent from these cookies under “Details”. Please note that our use of “Necessary” cookies is not subject to your consent, we use them by default, as without these cookies, our website functions requested by you do not work. Device fingerprinting. We use device fingerprinting technology for ensuring information security of our services and for preventing frauds. For further information please see our Privacy Notice. Further information about our privacy practices. Our Privacy Notice complements this Cookie Notice. Learn more about who we are, how you can contact us or our data protection officer, how we process personal data, what  are your rights regarding your personal data, and what are our data protection and privacy practices in our Privacy Notice. Do not sell or share my personal information Reject Allow selection Customize Allow all Menu Close Products Fraud Digital Footprint Understand your customers’ online presence using email, phone and IP data Device Intelligence Analyze and track device and behavioral biometric data patterns AI & Machine Learning Deploy transparent rules to prevent evolving fraud patterns in real time AML Compliance Customer Screening & Monitoring Simplify compliance with an integrated AML and fraud platform Case Management Eliminate manual processes and fragmented tools to achieve faster, more efficient investigations Integrations Shopify Seamlessly integrate fraud prevention into your Shopify store AWS Integrate Fraud Prevention Seamlessly with SEON’s AWS Partnership Solutions Industries Financial Services Safeguard your customers from fraud at every step, from onboarding to transaction monitoring Fintech Scale and onboard new customers with confidence Payments Block fraudulent transactions in real time iGaming Eliminate iGaming threats without sacrificing player experience Retail Reduce chargebacks & stop e-commerce fraud Use Cases Bonus Abuse Block bonus abuse before it begins Fake & Synthetic IDs Detect suspicious users upfront Account Takeover Block unauthorized access before it impacts your customers AI Automation Detect fraud patterns that human eyes can’t Registration & Onboarding Onboard the right customers quickly and without friction Login & Activity Monitoring Keep customers and your business safe Transaction Monitoring Stay compliant and protect honest customers with real-time monitoring Case Studies Resources Fraud & Risk Managers Articles Stay informed on the latest fraud and risk prevention insights Guides Access practical guides to strengthen fraud and risk detection Case Studies Discover success stories from the world’s most innovative companies Comparisons Compare fraud and risk software solutions Events Meet up with our experts at an industry conference Webinars Learn from industry leaders to gain practical insights Dictionary Understand essential fraud and risk industry terms All Resources Explore the full resource library Developers Integration Guide Easily integrate by following a detailed step-by-step guide API Documentation Integrate quickly using one API Technical Knowledge Base Learn more about SEON and how to optimize your setup Github Access our open-source fraud prevention tools Company Company About Us Learn about our mission and team Contact Us Get in touch with our experts Careers Join our team News Latest updates in fraud prevention Mediaroom Read the latest SEON news and media stories Partners Partners Become a SEON partner Pricing Speak with an expert Login Comparison Top 10 KYC Software & Tools Solutions 2024 What Is KYC Software? KYC software assists companies in meeting Know Your Customer (KYC) legal requirements. These requirements are clearly defined for certain industries, such as banking and financial products. These companies must rely on KYC software to learn more about their users. This is to prevent fraud and criminal activity, including money laundering and assisting terrorism, among others. KYC software will help you learn a user’s first and last name, as well as an address and an ID document. Top Features of KYC Software Before choosing KYC software, you should consider the following features: Frictionless data enrichment: This will let you know more about users without asking for official documents. The software analyzes digital footprints to give you an idea of who you are dealing with. Document verification : The software determines if the ID is valid, fake, or stolen. Different software has different data sources and methods for checking that information. Pay-as-you-go pricing: Ideally, you want your KYC software prices to scale along with your usage. There’s no point in spending thousands of dollars a month if you have a very low volume of applications. Anti-money laundering (AML) features: KYC software is often bundled with AML features. This may include looking at lists of Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs) or monitoring transactions over a certain threshold. The 10 Best KYC Software Solutions SEON Use Pre-KYC Checks to Save Money When it comes to digital footprint analysis, SEON is an incredibly helpful tool to help you glean your customers’ true intentions. SEON does not provide full KYC functionality – but it can save companies a lot of time and money spent on KYC by weeding out fraudulent users before they reach that crucial step. As a result, you will not need to spend money running KYC checks on demonstrably bad actors who would be rejected anyway. In addition to helping save resources, this boosts an organization’s fraud prevention efforts. Pros Check social signals Fast and frictionless Transparent pricing Also suitable for AML Cons No document check or biometric authentication No on-premise deployment SEON Pricing Starts at $599. Free version available with limited API calls. Choose SEON If You are concerned about your KYC costs and want to streamline the process. SEON’s tools give you insightful data points thanks to: Reverse phone lookup : Find all the red flags by checking whether the phone number exists, if it’s in the right country, and more. Reverse email analysis : Flag email addresses that don’t exist and spot suspicious free domains. Device fingerprinting: Learn which configuration of software and hardware the user relies on to connect to your site. Reverse digital profiling lookup: Check 90+ platforms and online networks for user data. All this data is fed through a powerful risk-scoring engine, which outputs a fraud score with clear explanations. This allows you to filter out junk users before the KYC stage, ask for additional information with medium-risk customers, and get more information for a manual review. SEON Pros Check social signals: SEON aggregates data from 90+ online platforms, including social networks, for user information – far more than any other KYC software tool. Fast and frictionless: Get results in split seconds via API. Transparent pricing: True software-as-a-service (SaaS) model with a free 14-day trial and cancel anytime contracts. Transparent pricing: Fully-featured free plan. Also suitable for AML: If you struggle with unifying your fraud management and compliance system, SEON has got you covered. SEON Cons No document check or biometric authentication: SEON is a pre-KYC filter or tool for extra info during a manual review. It is not a KYC solution, strictly speaking. No on-premise deployment: If you can’t use cloud-based KYC tools, SEON isn’t ideal. Read more Save Money on Your KYC Checks Leverage SEON to speed up KYC checks, save money on KYC, and flag suspicious users with behavioral analytics and a real time scoring engine. Speak with an Expert Onfido Leverage AI Liveness Verification What do companies such as Revolut, Remitly, and Bitstamp have in common? They all verify identities with Onfido. The company leverages its AI models to verify 2,500 kinds of ID documents in 195 countries. With Onfido, you’ll get liveness verification, biometrics analysis, and, of course, an AI system that will automatically accept or reject applications – with the added bonus of manual review for cases that fall within a grey area. Last but not least, Onfido is suitable for both KYC and AML checks thanks to its PEP screening and transaction monitoring features. Pros 2,500 document types KYC, AML, and anti-fraud Cons False positives More friction Onfido Pricing Available after a sales demo. Choose Onfido If You want to go above and beyond with the accuracy of your KYC and don’t mind friction. Onfido Pros 2,500 document types: Ondifo can verify ID documents from most countries. KYC, AML, and anti-fraud: You can perform all your compliance checks in one go, thanks to Onfido’s KYC and AML verifications. Onfido Cons False positives: As with most automated, AI-driven KYC checks, you’ll get the odd error – which can be frustrating for legitimate customers. More friction: While the liveness verification is effective, the risk of false positives and poor quality can add friction to the user experience. Read more Trulioo Enjoy Global Document Verification Trulioo (pronounced truly-you ) offers ID document verification by scanning its huge list of five billion identities in 195 countries. The company provides access to 11,800 types of documents, from driving licenses to residency permits. It’s ideal to meet KYC requirements and to check AML watchlists. All of Trulioo’s products, which also include business verification, are available via API integration. You can try the solution for free, then move up to the Growth plan (for KYC and AML checks only). The Enterprise plan includes business verification too. Pros Huge database Business verification Cons No data enrichment or risk scoring Trulioo Pricing No pricing is available online, but you have three options: a free trial, the Growth plan, or Enterprise (which includes business verification). Choose Trulioo If You have customers all around the world, and you need to verify their identity. Trulioo Pros Huge database: Probably one of the largest databases of IDs for KYC. Business verification: If you need to verify the identities of ultimate beneficial owners, Trulioo is suitable. That means Know Your Customer and Know Your Business (KYB) checks can be made from the same software. Trulioo Cons No data enrichment or risk scoring: Trulioo won’t be great for manual reviews or managing risk in other areas besides KYC. Read more Refinitiv Insights from Financial Data Analysts Refinitiv is an award-winning data analytics company specializing in keeping a large financial data catalog, which it can leverage for KYC and AML. When you integrate this solution, you get to choose the KYC model you need, including access to suggestions from hundreds of analysts worldwide who rely on 600+ sanctions and law enforcement watchlists. This makes Refinitiv a complete solution for both KYC and AML, with a specific focus on investment banking and asset management. Pros AML and KYC tools Human-vetted data Cons Pricing Refinitiv Pricing You have to contact the sales team for a quote. Choose Refinitiv If In addition to KYC and AML checks, you want to use its vast financial databases. Refinitiv Pros AML and KYC tools: Companies in finance and banking need their customers to pass both KYC and AML checks. You can do both with Refinitiv. Human-vetted data: One of Refinitiv’s strong suits is its data, aggregated from data analysts who pore over the latest watchlists for AML. Refinitiv Cons Pricing: A focus on top-tier financial institutions means you’re likely to get a higher quote. Read more KYC-Chain Employ Blockchain Tech for KYC KYC-Chain lets you verify identities, run Know Your Customer and AML checks and, perhaps more innovatively, leverage blockchain KYC. The latter is offered via its sister company, SelfKey, which allows users to store their KYC details on-chain. The company prides itself on its bank-grade compliance toolkit, which can scan more than 10,000 data sources in 240 counties with a response time of 30 seconds. At the time of writing, KYC-Chain claims to have helped more than half a million customers create accounts in various industries, such as telecoms, trading, and fund management. Pros Blockchain KYC Gaining traction in the crypto world Cons Developing tech KYC-Chain Pricing No pricing information is available online. Choose KYC-Chain If You want to demonstrate to the crypto community just how invested you are in it. KYC-Chain Pros Blockchain KYC: If you want to learn more about how a shared ledger can work for ID verification , KYC-Chain is a good place to start. Gaining traction in the crypto world: Crypto exchanges must go through KYC and AML checks. It looks like KYC-Chain has specific features for that market. KYC-Chain Cons Developing tech: A new technology requires mass adoption to be truly valuable, and blockchain KYC is still in its infancy. Read more Token of Trust Conduct Electronic ID Verification What do you do if you’re the victim of an online scam? Complain to the police? Boost your online security? For Darrin Edelman, the answer was to build a better KYC tool. This was exactly how Token of Trust was born in 2015. The Minnesota-based company now offers electronic ID verification as well as document scanning and age verification. The latter is particularly useful for companies in the adult or iGaming industry. Pros A complete suite of KYC tools Global KYC and AML coverage Cons Expensive Token of Trust Pricing Unavailable online. Choose Token of Trust If You’re in an industry that requires age verification and also want to conduct identity document verification (IDV) and biometric authentication. The company’s unique PACT Act compliance feature is also targeted to companies in the tobacco industry. Token of Trust Pros A complete suite of KYC tools: You’ve got identity verification, biometric authentication, and even age verification. Global KYC and AML coverage: Judging from online reviews, Token of Trust delivers excellent results in numerous markets worldwide. Token of Trust Cons Expensive: Token of Trust customers report that the company’s pricing is at the higher end of the spectrum. Read more ComplyAdvantage Get AML & KYC with a Free Plan ComplyAdvantage is another solution whose goal is to make compliance less painful. It offers customer screening and monitoring for KYC, but also transaction screening and media checks, making an ideal solution for all your AML needs. All the integration is done via APIs, and one of its key advantages is that you can try a free version if you’re a fintech startup or scale-up. For the sake of transparency, we should point out that Charles Delingpole, one of ComplyAdvantage’s founders, is a SEON investor. Pros Easy integration Free plan Ideal for KYC and AML Cons No data enrichment ComplyAdvantage Pricing Pricing is available upon request. The ComplyLaunch program gives fintech startups and scale-ups free access to some of ComplyAdvantage’s tools. Choose ComplyAdvantage If You are eligible for its free services for startups and want to leverage APIs for AML and KYC. ComplyAdvantage Pros Easy integration: Connect your system to ComplyAdvantage via well-documented APIs. Free plan: It’s rare to find KYC solutions with a non-paying (albeit limited) plan. Ideal for KYC and AML: PEP screening, adverse media checks… You’ve got all the tools needed to comply with both KYC and AML regulations. ComplyAdvantage Cons No data enrichment: You can verify identities but won’t be able to complete user profiles based on alternative data. Read more Ondato Leverage Biometrics for KYC If you need video ID verification and facial biometrics, Ondato should be on your radar. The Lithuanian company hopes that its KYC software is so frictionless that it will be close to enjoyable for your customers. It certainly seems to have its fans, as companies such as General Financing, Swedbank, and NFT Venture rely on its technology for both KYC and AML. Pros Full suite of KYC tools White label option Cons No data enrichment Ondato Pricing The lowest price is a $569 license per month, to which you must add $0.85 per verification. It is a sliding scale, though, and prices vary depending on whether you need to verify IDs only, or also check PEP lists, for instance. Choose Ondato If A full suite of KYC tools is what you require. Ondato Pros Full suite of KYC tools: It’s not just video verification with Ondato – you also get e-signatures, NFC verification, and biometrics, among others. White label option: You can hide the Ondato branding to reassure customers. Ondato Cons No data enrichment: It’s great for ID verification, but you can’t rely on Ondato for risk management. Read more Reduce Fraud Rates and Save on KYC Partner with SEON to reduce fraud rates in your business with real-time data enrichment, whitebox machine learning, and advanced APIs. Speak with an Expert Actico KYC for Traditional Finance Actico, which offers full digital transformation and decision automation products for some of the world’s leading financial institutions, also offers a complete compliance suite. It is designed specifically for AML, KYC, sanction list and PEP screening, and transaction screening. It also provides trade surveillance and even plays nicely with the renowned Avaloq Core banking system. Companies currently relying on Actico include Santander, Volkswagen Financial Services, and ING, among others, and there is a definite focus on traditional banking rather than, say, neobanks or challenger banks. Pros Powerful suite of compliance products Part of a larger business information (BI) ecosystem Cons Pricier product Focus on traditional financial institution (FI) tools Actico Pricing: Not available online. Choose Actico If You are a traditional financial institution needing KYC and AML compliance – especially if you rely on the Avaloq Core banking system. Actico Pros Powerful suite of compliance products : You get the KYC solution you need, plus transaction screening and AML as part of the deal. Part of a larger BI ecosystem: Actico also offers products for credit decisioning, fraud prevention, claims management, and fraud prevention. Actico Cons Pricier product: There is no public information on the official pricing, but it is understood that Actico targets enterprise customers with a legacy pricing model that includes multi-year contracts. Focus on traditional FI tools: Actico targets renowned banks. If you need a more agile and flexible KYC solution, this might not be the best tool for you. Read more iComply Know Your Customer and Business iComply, also known as iComplyKYC, clearly states that it offers all the tools you need for identity validation. What are these tools exactly? Well, for starters, you have document verification, identity proofing, and identity verification using biometric authentication. There are also KYB tools to help your compliance even further. If you also need anti-money laundering tools, the company has got you covered with watchlists, PEP, and adverse media checks – all available via modules that you can enable or disable depending on your current regulatory needs. Pros Choice of integration KYB tools Cons Opaque pricing structure iComply Pricing You have to contact the iComply team for pricing details. Choose iComply If You want modular KYC, KYB, and AML tools that integrate in various ways with your business processes. iComply Pros Choice of integration: iComply lets you easily integrate via API or JavaScript. On-premise is also an option. KYB tools: You can know everything you need about customers and businesses, including ultimate beneficial owners. iComply Cons Opaque pricing structure: There is a pricing calculator on the iComply website, but it won’t let you see the results until you speak with the sales team. Read more What Technologies Does KYC Software Use? Since there are no set rules for performing a KYC check, a number of technologies may be employed and often combined as part of a multi-layered approach. Real-time Video and Liveness Verification Real-time ID checks are usually provided by a third-party company. You integrate the software into your system, and it allows customers to upload official documents to the site. Supported ID documents may include passports, driving licenses, or residency permits. Pros and cons: Video streaming is quickly becoming the global standard for ID verification in the financial services industry. While the technology is quickly improving, it is still considered high friction; it’s a clear obstacle in your customer’s journey. This can be particularly damaging if you offer fast, mobile services where user experience is a competitive advantage, for instance as a neobank or challenger bank. Fraudsters are also increasingly good at bypassing video and ID verification with doctored documents and videos (deepfakes). Biometrics Another growing area of identity verification for KYC is the use of biometric technology. It includes physical measurements that are unique to each individual, such as a face ID, voice recognition, or fingerprint identification. In KYC, biometrics are often used at the authentication stage to ensure the person performing the action is the right one. There is an overlap with liveness identification and multi-factor authentication (MFA). Pros and cons: Biometrics is a great tool for quick authentication, but it’s not enough to confirm the quality of ID documents. There are also reported high levels of false positives where the scanning isn’t precise enough to function properly. Blockchain While blockchain technology is commonly associated with cryptocurrencies, there has been a recent push to leverage it to store and share KYC identifiers anonymously. The idea is to capture user ID data, verify it once, and turn it into immutable data points that are accessible without revealing personal information – with enough confidence in their accuracy to pass a KYC check. Pros and cons: Blockchain KYC tools have a ton of potential. They can scale and be much more affordable than traditional KYC software. However, these kinds of solutions will only show their true worth once adoption becomes more mainstream. Digital Footprint Analysis Sometimes a key part of a KYC check is simply proving that the person exists. With digital footprint analysis, the idea is to rely on a user’s behavior, social media presence, and online history to confirm that they are real. You can also get a better idea of who you’re dealing with by checking the tools they use. An email address or phone number, for instance, can reveal a lot of information about someone. The same can be true of the devices they rely on to connect to your site. You may not be able to confirm their IDs, but you can certainly flag suspicious behavior to learn if the person in question is a criminal or not. Pros and cons: Digital footprint analysis is fast and frictionless, as it happens behind the scenes. It’s a fantastic way to filter out junk users and obvious fraudsters. However, as a standalone technique, it’s not enough to confirm someone’s identity. AI and Machine Learning While the terms artificial intelligence and machine learning may seem daunting, there’s another word you can use to describe the technology: automation. In short, it’s about using automated systems to accelerate verification to work with a higher volume of applications, whether it’s for image quality checks, document digitization, or suggesting risk rules. The key point is that you can’t outsource KYC to machines; the algorithms are simply a way to help with existing processes. Pros and cons: AI and machine learning are fantastic tools to automate existing processes, but you must be able to trust the quality of your tech. It’s also worth considering whether you want to work with a blackbox (opaque) or whitebox (transparent) system. The former is designed to work out of the box. The latter can give you human-readable reasons to understand how it works so you can have more control. Improve the Way You Do KYC Partner with SEON to stop losing money to fraud, and save money with pre-KYC checks. Speak with an Expert Choosing the Best KYC Software With an increasing number of options for KYC verification , it’s useful to understand how KYC software works and which solutions make sense for your business. Hopefully, this article will be a good primer on the topic, whether you need to perform KYC checks via data enrichment or ID document verification. FAQs Why do you need to invest in KYC software? KYC software is one of the most convenient solutions for automating Know Your Customer checks. These are legal requirements in a growing number of industries, including finance, iGaming, and crypto exchanges. KYC software can help you avoid compliance fines and accelerate customer verification to onboard more new customers without spending additional resources. What does KYC stand for? KYC stands for Know Your Customer. It is a set of guidelines that come from local regulators to ensure businesses know who they are dealing with. What do you need for KYC? The minimum requirements include knowing the customer’s full name, address, and date of birth. It usually involves checking an ID document such as a driver’s license, passport, or residency certificate. Share Share Share Table of contents What Is KYC Software? Top Features The 10 Best KYC Software Solutions SEON Onfido Trulioo Refinitiv KYC-Chain Token of Trust ComplyAdvantage Ondato Actico iComply What Technologies Does KYC Software Use? How to Choose the Best KYC Software FAQs You Might Be Interested In Previous Next Article Fraud is Not a Single Moment in Time: The Ongoing Battle Against Digital Deception Combat fraud with proactive strategies like continuous monitoring, machine learning, and smarter detection methods. Guide Collaborative Strategies for Mitigating Fraud Risks in Digital Banking Expansion As digital banking expands rapidly, especially in emerging markets, it faces not only the promise of growth but also a… Article A Look at Holiday Fraud Trends: Examining Volume, Types and Prevention Strategies In the lead-up to the fast-approaching and busy holiday season, we’ve been carefully analyzing customer data, as we do each… Article Integrating Fraud Insights into AML Investigations: Effective Approaches for Compliance Teams Integrating fraud insights into AML workflows streamlines compliance, reduces costs, and improves risk monitoring. Webinar The Evolution of KYC: Strategies to Lower Costs and Enhance Customer Experience This webinar will explore how adopting advanced pre-KYC processes can revolutionize customer onboarding, allowing digital banks, fintechs, and payment companies… Article Advanced AML Transaction Monitoring Rules for Fraud & Compliance Teams Read how SEON’s advanced AML transaction monitoring cuts false positives, detects threats, and ensures compliance with real-time, customizable rules. Article The Talk of SBC Summit Latinoamérica: Brazil’s High-Stakes Gambling Regulatory Landscape SBC’s Summit Latinoamérica brought together industry leaders, regulators and technology providers to discuss pressing issues and emerging opportunities in Latin… Case study iGaming Operator LeoVegas Uses SEON to Detect 10% More Fraud and Increase Analyst Efficiency LeoVegas uses SEON to cut manual reviews by 30% and improve fraud detection by 10%, ensuring scalable fraud prevention. Guide Onboarding Risk Reduction in Digital Banking Download our free guide to secure efficient digital bank onboarding and tackle evolving fraud risks. Take the First Step Toward Transformative Fraud Prevention “SEON significantly enhanced our fraud prevention efficiency, freeing up time and resources for better policies, procedures and rules.” Vladislav Notevskyi, Head of KYC, Soft2Bet Automate 95% of fraud checks Reduce fraudulent registrations by 90% Accelerate manual reviews by 90% Trusted by 5,000+ Global Organizations: Book Time With Our Experts Google Client ID First Name * Last Name * Business email * Company name * Country * Country Afghanistan Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Asia/Pacific Region Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory British Virgin Islands Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Canary Islands Cape Verde Caribbean Netherlands Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic Republic of the Congo Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic East Timor Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Europe Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern and Antarctic Lands Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kosovo Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau Macedonia (FYROM) Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar (Burma) Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island North Korea Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Islands Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Romania Russia Rwanda Réunion Saint Barthélemy Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands South Korea South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu U.S. Virgin Islands Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vatican City Venezuela Vietnam Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Åland Islands Job Title * Phone Number Please select all that apply * Fraud Prevention AML & Compliance Transaction monitoring White Glove Services How did you hear about us? * Just like you, we hate spam. We won't call you and we will only send you relevant emails, which you can opt-out of at any time. By signing up, you agree to our Terms Of Service and Privacy Policy . 4.7 4.9 Products Digital Footprint Device Intelligence AI & Machine Learning Customer Screening & Monitoring Case Management Shopify AWS Free Trial Use Cases Account Takeover Bonus Abuse Fake & Synthetic IDs Registration & Onboarding Transaction Monitoring Login & Activity Monitoring AI Automation Industries Financial Services iGaming Retail Payment Fraud Fintech Resources Articles Guides Comparisons Case Studies Events Webinars Dictionary Developers API Reference Knowledge Base Github Company About Us Contact Us Partners News Mediaroom Careers LinkedIn X Instagram Facebook Legal & Security FAQ API Status © 2024 Copyright SEON Technologies Ltd. ES EN

---

Best Practice Guide: The Path to Perpetual KYC Perpetual KYC is increasingly becoming a necessity for organizations. Its benefits significantly outweigh any challenges – both in terms of efficiency gains and the effectiveness of mitigating risk. This material is only available for Enterprise Members and Premium Webinar Subscriber. Download The Guide Download The Summary Summary Benefits Intended Audience Main Sectors Summary The global spend on financial crime compliance at financial institutions reached US$213.9bn in 2021, an increase of nearly 16% on the previous year. The cost pressure that organizations face, along with other competing priorities, has meant that firms have not always prioritized investment in financial crime unless something has gone wrong. Traditionally, organizations perform KYC checks at onboarding, classifying clients into categories of risk – high, medium, low. Thereafter, client information is typically refreshed periodically, following a one, three, or five-year cycle. In contrast, perpetual KYC is the practice of maintaining accurate client data, through updates based on changes in clients’ behaviors and circumstances in near real-time. In contrast to cycles of remediation, perpetual KYC is a continuum. In this guide we explore how organizations can pave the path to perpetual KYC. Benefits Developing a sustainable perpetual KYC practice provides multiple benefits to organizations including: Effective Risk Management Operational Efficiencies Improved Customer Experience Intended Audience Financial Crime Professionals First Line KYC Analysts/ Managers Transaction Monitoring Analysts/ Managers Financial Crime Operations Leaders Financial Crime Technology/ Change Leaders Second Line Financial Crime Advisory/ Policy Leaders Financial Crime Assurance Leaders Auditors Main Sectors Financial Institutions Non-Bank financial institutions including MSBs, PSPs Regulated entities that perform KYC

---

Guide: Best 10 KYC Solutions in 2024 KYC is becoming increasingly important for online companies. Once only legally required for financial institutions, KYC software must be deployed by a growing number of industries. Learn more about KYC solutions, top providers, key challenges and how to overcome them. Author: Kate Podgaiskaya Last updated September 30, 2024 Contents Introduction What is a KYC Technology? Role of KYC in the fintech industry KYC market and trends 2024 Benefits of KYC automation Best KYC providers How to choose a KYC provider? Checklist of critical features Introduction In the fast-paced world of finance and technology, Know Your Customer (KYC) technology practice plays a pivotal role in maintaining the integrity and security of financial transactions and operating digital banking software systems . This guide provides an overview of KYC technology and what are the benefits of using it. You will also learn about the 10 most successful and outstanding KYC providers in 2024. Go live in weeks! Explore market-ready white-label fintech solutions. Contact us What is a KYC Technology? KYC (Know Your Customer) technology is a set of processes and tools employed by financial institutions and businesses to verify the identity of their customers. It involves collecting and analyzing customer information to ensure that they are who they claim to be. ​ KYC processes typically include the collection of personal information, document verification (e.g., passports, driver's licenses), biometric authentication, and screening against global sanctions lists and watchlists. The goal of KYC technology is to establish a customer's identity and assess their risk profile accurately. The KYC framework contains four steps: customer identification program (CIP), customer due diligence (CDD), enhanced due diligence (EDD) and ongoing monitoring. 1. Customer Identification Program (CIP): ​ The Customer Identification Program is the initial step in KYC. It focuses on collecting and verifying customer information to establish their identity. Key aspects of CIP include: ​ Gathering basic customer information, such as name, date of birth, address, and contact details. ​ Requesting official identification documents, such as passports, driver's licenses, or national ID cards, to validate the customer's identity.​ ​ Conducting basic background checks and screenings to ensure that the provided information is accurate and matches official records. ​ 2. Customer Due Diligence (CDD): ​ Customer Due Diligence is the second step in the KYC process, following CIP. It involves a more comprehensive assessment of the customer's risk profile and financial activities. The main objectives of CDD are: ​ Evaluating the customer's transaction history and patterns. ​ Understanding the source of funds and wealth associated with the customer's accounts. ​ Identifying any politically exposed persons (PEPs) or high-risk entities with whom the customer is associated. ​ Categorizing the customer's risk level as low, medium, or high based on the gathered information. ​ 3. Enhanced Due Diligence (EDD): ​ Enhanced Due Diligence is an additional step in the KYC process that is reserved for customers deemed to be high risk based on the results of CDD. EDD involves a more in-depth investigation into the customer's background, financial activities, and associations. Specific aspects of EDD include: ​ Conducting a thorough review of the source of funds and business relationships. ​ Understanding the source of funds and wealth associated with the customer's accounts. ​ Identifying any politically exposed persons (PEPs) or high-risk entities with whom the customer is associated. ​ Categorizing the customer's risk level as low, medium, or high based on the gathered information. ​ 4. Ongoing Monitoring: ​ Ongoing Monitoring is the final step in the KYC process and is a continuous effort throughout the customer relationship. Its primary objectives are: ​ Continuously monitoring customer accounts and transactions for any suspicious or unusual activities. ​ Updating customer information and risk assessments on a regular basis to reflect any changes. ​ Reporting and investigating any red flags or suspicious activities promptly. ​ Ensuring ongoing compliance with regulatory requirements and making necessary adjustments to mitigate emerging risks. ​ These four steps collectively form a comprehensive KYC process that helps financial institutions and businesses verify the identities of their customers, assess their risk levels, and mitigate the potential for financial crimes such as money laundering and fraud. ​ The KYC framework is not a one-time process but rather a continuous cycle. It is essential for mitigating risks related to money laundering, fraud, terrorist financing, and other financial crimes. By following these three steps, financial institutions and businesses can maintain a comprehensive understanding of their customers, prevent illicit activities, and comply with regulatory requirements. Role of KYC in the Fintech industry KYC regulations have their roots in a history marked by uncontrolled financial misconduct. The initial directives were formulated back in 1970, caused by the adoption of the US Bank Secrecy Act (BSA), the main purpose of which is to combat money laundering. Subsequent significant additions followed later after the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and the global financial crisis of 2008. ​ The role of KYC is pivotal in various industries, particularly in the financial sector. Today KYC and related Anti-Money Laundering (AML) measures are essential for fintech firms as integral components of their compliance protocols. These companies must guarantee their adherence to both local and, where relevant, international rules governing the process of verifying customer identities. KYC processes help prevent a range of problems and risks associated with identity fraud, money laundering, terrorist financing, and other financial crimes. ​ Here's an overview of the role of KYC and the problems it can prevent: ​ Identity Verification: KYC ensures that financial institutions and businesses verify the identity of their customers. This helps prevent impersonation, identity theft, and the use of fraudulent identities for various purposes, including opening accounts and conducting transactions. ​ Fraud Prevention: KYC measures play a crucial role in fraud prevention. By verifying customer identities and scrutinizing their financial activities, businesses can detect and prevent fraudulent transactions, such as unauthorized account access or fraudulent fund transfers. ​ Money Laundering Prevention: KYC is a vital component of Anti-Money Laundering (AML) efforts. It helps identify and deter money laundering activities where illicit funds are disguised as legitimate assets. By scrutinizing customer transactions and behavior, suspicious activities can be flagged and reported to regulatory authorities. ​ Compliance with Regulatory Requirements: Financial institutions are legally obligated to comply with KYC regulations imposed by local and international authorities. Failure to do so can result in severe penalties and damage to a business's reputation. KYC ensures compliance with these regulations. ​ Risk Assessment: KYC helps assess the risk profile of customers. By categorizing customers as low, medium, or high risk, businesses can allocate resources and apply appropriate due diligence measures to mitigate risks effectively. ​ Preventing Unauthorized Transactions: KYC helps ensure that transactions are conducted by authorized individuals. This reduces the risk of unauthorized access to accounts and financial assets. ​ Data Security: KYC processes also contribute to data security by ensuring that sensitive customer information is handled with care and that it doesn't fall into the wrong hands. ​ In summary, KYC plays a vital role in safeguarding the integrity of financial systems, preventing financial crimes, protecting businesses from regulatory violations, and enhancing overall security and trust in the financial industry and beyond. It is a cornerstone of compliance and risk management, serving as a proactive measure to prevent a wide range of problems and risks. Because there are no established guidelines for conducting a KYC verification, various emerging technologies can be utilized and frequently combined in a multi-faceted strategy: Real-time Video and Liveness Verification, Biometrics, Digital Footprint Analysis, AI and Machine Learning. Although blockchain technology is frequently linked to cryptocurrencies, there is a recent trend to harness it for the anonymous storage and sharing of KYC information. ​ Thanks to technological advances, neobanks and other Fintech companies now have various options that allow them to automate and streamline the process – although it can still be an expensive exercise considering the hidden costs and possible penalties of not satisfying regulatory requirements. ​ ​ Slash Costs, Boost Efficiency: How to Get KYC Verification Services at Half the Price? ​ We're transforming KYC and KYB procedures with cutting-edge low-code solution and data automation system, enhancing the efficiency of verification processes. Our workflow builder empowers users to craft and personalize workflows for KYC and KYB, sans the necessity for coding or software development expertise. Featuring a user-friendly visual interface and pre-designed components, it enables seamless design, configuration, and automation of identity verification for customers or business entities. ​ Explore the benefits: ​ 85% Time-saving on Customer Onboarding: Streamline your onboarding process, reducing time to seconds, ensuring swift and efficient customer acquisition ​ 50% Cost Reduction: Cut down on operational expenses without compromising on quality or compliance. Launch in Just 2 Weeks: Get up and running swiftly with our fast implementation process, enabling you to start reaping the benefits of our solution in no time. Building a fintech project? Reach out to us for readymade solutions & system integration services. Contact us KYC market and trends 2024 The KYC market is continuously evolving to address new challenges and regulatory requirements while leveraging emerging technologies. According to the Report Ocean , the global E-KYC (electronic Know Your Customer) market size was US$ 1571.1 million in 2021. The global E-KYC market is predicted to grow to US$ 2791.5 million by 2030 by registering a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 21.5% during the forecast period from 2022 to 2030. The E-KYC market is anticipated to grow as a result of factors such as terrorist financing operations and substantial financial losses in the banking, financial services, and insurance sectors. ​ 2024 trends in KYC and Verification: Increased Digital Identity Integration: ​ Expect broader adoption of digital identity verification, reducing user anonymity, especially in online services like dating apps and comments sections. ​ Web 3.0 and Blockchain-based IDs: Anticipate advancements in Web 3.0 and blockchain-based digital identities, with solutions like Sumsub's product for blockchain identity implementation. ​ Evolving Crypto Regulations: Keep an eye on evolving cryptocurrency regulations, such as Switzerland's requirement for identity verification in transactions exceeding $1005. ​ Verification Orchestration: Orchestration enables tailored KYC processes for different customer types. Sumsub's Workflow Builder, a code-free solution, allows businesses to automate onboarding based on specific risk scenarios and customer characteristics. ​ Unified API: Single integration to plug-and-play access to data sources, registries, IDVs and more. ​ ​ Passive Biometry on the Rise: ​ Passive biometric authentication will become more prevalent, shifting towards an "always on" mode for identity confirmation. ​ Tightened Regulatory Requirements: Regulators worldwide are likely to tighten rules, including broader adoption of the Travel Rule and stricter data protection measures. ​ Document-Free Verification: Document-free verification will become more widespread, enabling users to confirm their identity through quick face authentication checks, similar to India's financial institutions. ​ ​ All-in-One Verification Solutions: Expect the emergence of all-in-one verification solutions combining KYC and transaction monitoring to streamline the onboarding process and strengthen compliance with regulations. In 2024, it's crucial for businesses to invest in robust anti-fraud solutions capable of detecting advanced fraudulent activities amid evolving criminal tactics. Benefits of KYC automation Yet, with technological advancements reshaping the business landscape, the demand for KYC automation is on the rise. This innovative solution aims to revolutionize tedious onboarding processes and compliance obligations, turning them into streamlined and efficient operations KYC automation employs software to examine and authenticate customer identity documents, including passports, driver's licenses, and utility bills. Additionally, it utilizes advanced data analytics and machine learning algorithms to promptly and effectively evaluate risks or potential red flags linked to individual customers. As technology progresses, KYC processes can now be automated, offering numerous advantages to financial institutions. Here are the benefits of KYC process automation: Cost and time savings: ​ Manual processes in verification and paperwork processes cause delays, frustrations, and high operational costs, leading to inefficiencies and security risks. Human errors and inflexible systems result in inaccuracies and delays. Automated verification systems streamline processes, providing real-time access and cost-efficient scalability. Enhanced security features minimize errors and fraud, ensuring a robust verification system that addresses the shortcomings of manual methods. ​ Geographical expansion: Each country has its own set of complex regulations related to KYC, KYB, and AML procedures. Navigating these regulations efficiently while ensuring compliance can be a daunting task for businesses. Drag-and-drop builders offer the flexibility to adapt the verification flow to meet the unique regulatory landscape of each market. Additionally, they enable seamless integration with local KYC, KYB, and AML providers, streamlining the compliance process. Data sources expansion: ​ Expanding data sources for KYC, KYB processes presents integration challenges, as businesses must gather all necessary information from diverse sources. Manual integration of these sources hampers scalability, making it difficult for businesses to efficiently manage and process data as they grow. Access to diverse data sources enhances accuracy and completeness. By leveraging single integration, businesses streamline integration, boost compliance, and scale operations effectively. ​ Enhanced customer experience: KYC automation enables seamless and rapid onboarding and identity verification for customers, fostering a positive experience and bolstering satisfaction and loyalty. As technology progresses, KYC automation is poised to become indispensable for banks seeking to streamline operations and enhance efficiency. Need help with KYC system  integration? As a system integrator, Velmie helps banks and fintech companies with process automation. Contact us Best 12 KYC providers 2024 In 2024, the KYC landscape boasts a range of providers with diverse offerings. Here are the top 12 KYC providers worldwide to consider: (UK) Shufti Pro is a SaaS company providing fully automated KYC and AML solutions like KYC to verify the end-users of a business, KYB to verify business, AML to perform background checks but this all can be achieved using one single API so our solution is easy enough for any business to integrate with their existing system using a simple to implementRESTful API. The company offers a multi-layered risk cover against digital identity fraud, money laundering and terrorist financing. (Germany) Fractal is an identity verification platform, ranging from human uniqueness for sybil-resistance to KYC/AML for regulatory compliance. Fractal provides decentralized identity solutions for Web3 users and chains ensuring trustless systems and empowering users to exchange their data in a privacy-preserving way. It was founded in 2017 and is headquartered in Berlin. (UK) Sumsub is the one verification platform to secure the whole user journey. With Sumsub’s customizable KYC, KYB, transaction monitoring and fraud prevention solutions, you can orchestrate your verification process, welcome more customers worldwide, meet compliance requirements, reduce costs and protect your business. Sumsub has over 2,000 clients across the fintech, crypto, transportation, trading and gaming industries. Sumsub’s methodology follows FATF recommendations, the international standard for AML/CTF rules and local regulatory requirements (FINMA, FCA, CySEC, MAS, BaFin). (USA) IDology, Inc provides innovative technology solutions that verify an individual’s identity and/or age for organizations operating in a customer-not-present environment. The IDology platform serves as a collaborative hub for monitoring and stopping fraudulent activityacross the entire network while also driving revenue, decreasing costs and meeting compliance regulations. Founded in 2003, IDology offers a solution-driven approach to identity verification and fraud prevention, providing streamlined processes that ultimately help increase customer acquisition and improve the overall customer experience. IDology has developed an on-demand technology platform that allows customers to control the entire proofing process and provides the flexibility to make configuration changes that are deployed automatically – without having to rely on internal IT resources or IDology’s customer service – so customers can stay ahead of the fraud landscape while also maintaining compliance. (USA) Mitek is a global leader in digital access, founded to bridge the physical and digital worlds. Mitek's advanced identity verification technologies and global platform make digital access faster and more secure than ever, providing companies new levels of control, deployment ease and operation, while protecting the entire customer journey. Trusted by 99% of U.S. banks for mobile check deposits and 7,500 of the world's largest organizations, Mitek helps companies reduce risk and meet regulatory requirements. iDenfy, an antifraud and compliance company from Lithuania, is recognized by G2 as a leader in identity verification, AML, and KYB (Know Your Business) solutions for the second consecutive year. The average score is 4.9 from a maximum of 5. The platform offers an identity verification solution with more than 3000 identity documents supported from 200 countries and territories. There is a direct integration for PEPs, sanctions, and adverse media checks with ongoing screening. Instead of charging per every identity session, the company chose a different route - clients pay only per approved customer, omitting denied verifications due to fraud, expiry, or bad image quality. With over 500 worldwide customers, including the Bank of Lithuania, iDenfy offers business verification with access to official credit bureaus for 160 countries and government-issued registry reports. Everything is integrated into a single platform with an option to generate reports required by auditors. ​ Pros: Wide range of integration, including all mobile SDKs, iFrame, WordPress, Zapier, Bubble, and others. KYC, AML, and KYB features in a single platform. Pay only per approved customer. KYC Hub is the industry leader in Know Your Customer (KYC) compliance automation. Their end-to-end platform simplifies complex regulations with user-friendly solutions to ensure efficient operations and risk mitigation. A poor onboarding process can be a detriment to client acquisition. With easy-to-use compliance software, KYC Hub prioritises a smooth customer experience above all. Leveraging AI, Machine Learning, and a worldwide network, KYC Hub streamlines the KYC journey for both businesses and their customers. Beyond ease, clients experience a 40-55% reduction in compliance costs. And KYC Hub isn't just a leader in compliance, it's a global pioneer in workflow automation. Their software is meticulously designed to prioritize ease of use. Onboarding new clients becomes a breeze with intuitive interfaces and a streamlined user experience. This translates to not only faster onboarding times but also minimizes errors and ensures seamless operation throughout our personal compliance journey. (UK) Sanction Scanner provides a platform for AML and KYC compliance, featuring customer screening against over 3000 sanction lists, watchlists, and PEP lists. The platform utilizes AI-driven algorithms to enhance the accuracy of screenings and reduce false positives. It includes an ongoing monitoring tool that enables customizable auto-scans for high-risk customers at set intervals, facilitating timely updates on risk profiles. The platform offers real-time alerts, ensuring that businesses are immediately notified of any changes in a customer's risk status, enabling prompt action to mitigate potential threats. Sanction Scanner offers a developer portal with detailed documentation, sample code, and SDKs for seamless API integration, allowing for the automation of AML control processes. Sanction Scanner features a user-friendly interface that simplifies the process of conducting AML and KYC checks, making it accessible for users of all technical levels. (Canada) Trulioo is a global identity verification company that provides secure access to hundreds of identity networks around the world to help meet compliance requirements, mitigate the risk of fraud, and increase trust and safety online. Thier flexible solution enables customizable rules configurations and workflows to satisfy the ever-changing needs of businesses and consumers worldwide through a single API. (UK) Onfido makes it easy for people to access services by digitally verifying them using its Real Identity Platform. The platform allows businesses to tailor verification methods to individual user and market needs in a no-code, orchestration layer – combining the right mix of document and biometric verifications, trusted data sources, and passive fraud signals to meet their risk, friction and regulatory requirements. Onfido Atlas™ AI powers the platform’s fully automated, end-to-end identity verification. Developed in-house for over 10 years, it’s how Onfido ensures its analysis is fair, fast and accurate. (UK) SEON is a fraud prevention startup developing a fraud detection software to detect fraud in real-time through transactional data analysis. Its software uses machine learning and human intelligence algorithms to collect information about transactions and customers associated, integrates with a device fingerprinting module, and combines email verification and IP address analysis features to detect and report transactional and behavioral fraud patterns. It also allows businesses to detect and eliminate fraudulent activities and maintain data security. Founded in 2017, the company is based in Budapest, Hungary with commercial headquarters in London, UK. (Estonia) Veriff is a global identity verification service company founded and headquartered in Tallinn, Estonia. The company offers services for online businesses to mitigate fraud attempts and assisting regulatory compliance. The partner of choice for businesses who need to rapidly and effortlessly verify online users from anywhere in the world, Veriff delivers the widest possible identity document coverage. By supporting government issued IDs from more than 230 countries and territories and with our intelligent decision engine which analyzes thousands of technological and behavioral variables Veriff enables trust from the first hello. (USA) Jumio is an AI platform that enables users to establish their identity remotely to protect against fraud and other financial crime. The Jumio KYX Platform offers a range of identity proofing services to accurately establish, maintain and reassert trust from account opening to ongoing transaction monitoring. It leverages advanced technology including AI, biometrics, machine learning, liveness detection, and automation, Jumio helps organizations fight fraud, onboard good customers faster, and meet regulatory compliance including KYC, AML, and GDPR. Jumio has verified more than 300 million identities issued by over 200 countries and territories from real-time web and mobile transactions. The identity verification company's solutions are used by leading companies in the financial services, sharing economy, digital currency, retail, travel, and online gaming sectors. In 2016, Daniel Mattes and Robert Prigge headquartered Jumio in Palo Alto, California. How to choose a KYC provider? Checklist of critical features When selecting a KYC provider, consider the following factors: Compliance Expertise: ​ Look for a KYC provider with a strong understanding of the regulatory landscape in your industry and region. They should be up-to-date with the latest KYC and AML regulations. ​ Flexibility and Customization: Your KYC provider should offer flexibility in tailoring their services to your specific needs. This includes the ability to customize workflows, risk assessments, and integration with your existing systems. ​ Pay-as-you-go pricing: Ideally, you want your KYC software prices to scale along with your usage. There’s no point in spending thousands of dollars a month if you have a very low volume of applications. ​ ​ Global Coverage: ​ If your business operates internationally, choose a provider with global coverage. They should be able to perform KYC checks for customers from various countries and jurisdictions. ​ Technology Stack: Assess the provider's technology stack. Are they utilizing advanced technologies such as AI and machine learning for enhanced verification and risk assessment?​ ​ ​ Checklist of critical features ​ When evaluating KYC providers, it's important to ensure that they offer a comprehensive set of features to meet your business needs. Here are some critical features in KYC solutions: 1. Identity Verification: ​ Automated functionalities for confirming the identity of customers, including authentication of identity documents and biometric verification. ​ 3. Customer Onboarding: Capabilities for collecting and validating customer details and documentation during the initial onboarding process. ​ 5. Document Management: Systems designed for the storage and organization of customer documents, such as identity records, onboarding forms, and risk assessments. ​ 7. Integration with Other Systems and Data Sources: The capacity to seamlessly connect with other software systems, such as customer relationship management (CRM) platforms and enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems data sources, registries, IDVs and more, to facilitate data flow and enhance operational efficiency.​ 2. Risk Evaluation: ​ Tools for assessing customer-related risks, which may involve screening against sanctions lists, politically exposed person (PEP) databases, and various risk data sources. ​ 4. Ongoing Customer Due Diligence: Features for conducting regular assessments of customer relationships to ensure adherence to regulatory requirements over time. ​ 6. Reporting: Functionality for generating reports concerning customer data, transactions, and compliance with regulatory standards. ​ 8. Anti-money laundering (AML) features: KYC software is often bundled with AML features. This may include looking at lists of Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs) or monitoring transactions over a certain threshold. ​ ​ Choosing the right KYC provider is a critical decision for businesses aiming to maintain compliance, enhance security, and build trust with customers. Research the provider's reputation in the industry and seek references or case studies from their existing clients.Take your time to assess your options thoroughly and select a provider that aligns with your specific requirements and goals. How to tackle key KYC challenges? KYC is a critical process for businesses and financial institutions to verify the identity of their customers. however, numerous companies are wasting a lot of financial resources and extensive labor hours when establishing AML and KYC procedures due to the ineffectiveness of their processes. Among the key challenges that KYC processes come with are: High onboarding costs are one of the significant challenges associated with KYC processes. This challenge primarily refers to the substantial expenses incurred by businesses and financial institutions when bringing new customers onboard while ensuring compliance with KYC requirements. ​ Stringent regulatory requirements. Keeping up with constantly evolving and increasingly strict regulatory requirements can be a significant challenge. Different countries and regions may have their own KYC standards, making it complex for organizations operating globally. ​ Customer onboarding delays. KYC procedures can often lead to delays in customer onboarding, which can frustrate customers and lead to lost business opportunities. Striking a balance between thorough verification and speedy onboarding is challenging. ​ Data privacy and security. Safeguarding customer data is paramount, and ensuring compliance with data protection laws (e.g., GDPR) while collecting and storing sensitive information adds complexity to KYC processes. Customer Experience. Balancing the need for comprehensive verification with a smooth and user-friendly experience for customers is a constant challenge. Lengthy or cumbersome KYC processes can lead to customer dissatisfaction. ​ Cross-Border KYC. Conducting KYC for customers who operate across multiple countries or regions can be complex due to varying regulatory requirements and the need to coordinate with multiple authorities. ​ Technology integration. Implementing and integrating KYC solutions into existing systems and processes can be challenging. Legacy systems may not easily support modern digital KYC processes. ​ False positives. Automated KYC systems may generate false positives, flagging legitimate customers as suspicious. Managing and reducing false positives without compromising security is a challenge. ​ Documentation variability. Customers may provide different types of documents for verification, and these documents can vary widely in format and quality. Handling this variability can be challenging. What is a KYC Technology? Best KYC providers KYC market and trends 2024 How to choose a KYC provider? Checklist of critical features Role of KYC in the fintech industry Benefits of KYC automation You might also be interested in Top 10 Software Platforms for Regional Banks Read >> Best Core Banking Software Solutions Read >>

---

Best KYC Software 2024 | Capterra Helping businesses choose better software since 1999 Log In Sign up Software Categories CRM Software Email Marketing Software Help Desk Software Human Resource Software Project Management Software Browse All Categories Service Categories Accounting Firms Digital Marketing Agencies Advertising Agencies SEO Companies Web Design Companies Browse All Categories Guides & Research Glossary Blog & Research Who We Are About Us FAQs For Vendors Write a Review KYC Software KYC Software Capterra offers objective, independent research and verified user reviews. We may earn a referral fee when you visit a vendor through our links. Learn more AU10TIX 5.0 ( 3 ) Overall 5.0 Ease of Use 4.3 Customer Service 5.0 Features 4.7 Value for Money 4.0 Visit Website The only global identity management solution with 100% automated technology, outsmarting fraud since 1982. Learn more about AU10TIX KYC features reviewers most value Background Screening Compliance Management Document Management Fraud Detection Identity Verification Optical Character Recognition PEP Screening Real-Time Monitoring Risk Management Compare Sumsub 4.7 ( 68 ) Overall 4.7 Ease of Use 4.4 Customer Service 4.5 Features 4.6 Value for Money 4.8 Visit Website Sumsub is a full-cycle verification platform that secures the whole user journey. Learn more about Sumsub KYC features reviewers most value Background Screening Compliance Management Document Management Fraud Detection Identity Verification Optical Character Recognition PEP Screening Real-Time Monitoring Risk Management Compare Persona 4.9 ( 11 ) Overall 4.9 Ease of Use 4.9 Customer Service 4.9 Features 4.9 Value for Money 4.9 Visit Website Persona provides companies with configurable identity infrastructure for KYC, AML, KYB, fraud detection, onboarding, and more. Learn more about Persona KYC features reviewers most value Background Screening Compliance Management Document Management Fraud Detection Identity Verification Optical Character Recognition PEP Screening Real-Time Monitoring Risk Management Compare Ondato 4.8 ( 13 ) Overall 4.8 Ease of Use 4.9 Customer Service 4.8 Features 4.5 Value for Money 4.7 Visit Website Compliance management suite for remote customer onboarding, ID verification, due-diligence, data validation and monitoring. Learn more about Ondato KYC features reviewers most value Background Screening Compliance Management Document Management Fraud Detection Identity Verification Optical Character Recognition PEP Screening Real-Time Monitoring Risk Management Compare Bizagi 4.4 ( 141 ) Overall 4.4 Ease of Use 4.4 Customer Service 4.1 Features 4.3 Value for Money 4.3 View Profile Modern Apps Powered by Process
Modernize operations with process automation, low-code apps and AI Learn more about Bizagi KYC features reviewers most value Background Screening Compliance Management Document Management Fraud Detection Identity Verification Optical Character Recognition PEP Screening Real-Time Monitoring Risk Management Compare 82 % of users recommend this product Plaid 4.2 ( 52 ) Overall 4.2 Ease of Use 4.3 Customer Service 4.3 Features 4.2 Value for Money 4.2 View Profile Protect your bottom line, prevent sophisticated attacks, and reduce fraud losses with Identity Verification. Learn more about Plaid KYC features reviewers most value Background Screening Compliance Management Document Management Fraud Detection Identity Verification Optical Character Recognition PEP Screening Real-Time Monitoring Risk Management Compare Onfido 4.6 ( 30 ) Overall 4.6 Ease of Use 4.5 Customer Service 4.4 Features 4.3 Value for Money 4.2 View Profile Onfido helps businesses to build identity verification around their unique needs with an end-to-end, AI powered platform. Learn more about Onfido KYC features reviewers most value Background Screening Compliance Management Document Management Fraud Detection Identity Verification Optical Character Recognition PEP Screening Real-Time Monitoring Risk Management Compare IDfy 4.4 ( 28 ) Overall 4.4 Ease of Use 4.4 Customer Service 4.2 Features 4.3 Value for Money 4.2 View Profile Our KYC provides the smoothest customer onboarding experience that helps clients convert more customers in the shortest possible time Learn more about IDfy KYC features reviewers most value Background Screening Compliance Management Document Management Fraud Detection Identity Verification Optical Character Recognition PEP Screening Real-Time Monitoring Risk Management Compare Shufti Pro 4.4 ( 28 ) Overall 4.4 Ease of Use 4.3 Customer Service 4.3 Features 4.0 Value for Money 4.1 View Profile ShuftiPro is an AI-based verification service offering KYC, AML & KYB for fraud prevention, regulatory compliance & customer onboarding Learn more about Shufti Pro KYC features reviewers most value Background Screening Compliance Management Document Management Fraud Detection Identity Verification Optical Character Recognition PEP Screening Real-Time Monitoring Risk Management Compare Company Watch 4.8 ( 23 ) Overall 4.8 Ease of Use 4.8 Customer Service 5.0 Features 4.8 Value for Money 4.9 View Profile Company Watch is a compliance tool for KYC processes that accelerates compliance and reduces financial risk. Learn more about Company Watch KYC features reviewers most value Background Screening Compliance Management Document Management Fraud Detection Identity Verification Optical Character Recognition PEP Screening Real-Time Monitoring Risk Management Compare IPQS 4.9 ( 19 ) Overall 4.9 Ease of Use 4.7 Customer Service 5.0 Features 4.8 Value for Money 4.8 View Profile IPQS provides innovative fraud prevention solutions with real-time data, advanced APIs, and customizable scoring settings. Learn more about IPQS KYC features reviewers most value Background Screening Compliance Management Document Management Fraud Detection Identity Verification Optical Character Recognition PEP Screening Real-Time Monitoring Risk Management Compare KYC Portal 4.7 ( 16 ) Overall 4.7 Ease of Use 4.3 Customer Service 4.7 Features 4.4 Value for Money 4.4 View Profile Real-time, risk-driven lifecycle management platform with full ownership of policy automation, increased efficiencies and reduces risk. Learn more about KYC Portal KYC features reviewers most value Background Screening Compliance Management Document Management Fraud Detection Identity Verification Optical Character Recognition PEP Screening Real-Time Monitoring Risk Management Compare UniFi 4.6 ( 15 ) Overall 4.6 Ease of Use 4.7 Customer Service 4.7 Features 4.5 Value for Money 4.5 View Profile UniFi gives you the features to know your customer with ease. Due diligence is essential, so it shouldn’t be a painful process. Learn more about UniFi KYC features reviewers most value Background Screening Compliance Management Document Management Fraud Detection Identity Verification Optical Character Recognition PEP Screening Real-Time Monitoring Risk Management Compare ComplyCube 5.0 ( 10 ) Overall 5.0 Ease of Use 5.0 Customer Service 5.0 Features 5.0 Value for Money 4.9 View Profile SaaS & API platform for Identity Verification (IDV), Anti-Money Laundering (AML), and Know Your Customer (KYC). Learn more about ComplyCube KYC features reviewers most value Background Screening Compliance Management Document Management Fraud Detection Identity Verification Optical Character Recognition PEP Screening Real-Time Monitoring Risk Management Compare Formica Fraud 5.0 ( 9 ) Overall 5.0 Ease of Use 4.9 Customer Service 5.0 Features 5.0 Value for Money 4.8 View Profile AI & ML-powered fraud, risk management solution that helps businesses monitor, detect and prevent fraud using custom workflows. Learn more about Formica Fraud KYC features reviewers most value Background Screening Compliance Management Document Management Fraud Detection Identity Verification Optical Character Recognition PEP Screening Real-Time Monitoring Risk Management Compare MetaMap 4.1 ( 9 ) Overall 4.1 Ease of Use 4.3 Customer Service 4.6 Features 3.9 Value for Money 4.1 View Profile A customizable trust workflow for fast-growing companies. Increase safety on your product, and comply with KYC / AML regulation. Learn more about MetaMap KYC features reviewers most value Background Screening Compliance Management Document Management Fraud Detection Identity Verification Optical Character Recognition PEP Screening Real-Time Monitoring Risk Management Compare Incode Omni 4.9 ( 7 ) Overall 4.9 Ease of Use 5.0 Customer Service 4.9 Features 5.0 Value for Money 4.7 View Profile Revolutionize end-to-end onboarding and intelligence with modular, no-code orchestration and source-of-truth connections. Learn more about Incode Omni KYC features reviewers most value Background Screening Compliance Management Document Management Fraud Detection Identity Verification Optical Character Recognition PEP Screening Real-Time Monitoring Risk Management Compare iComplyKYC 5.0 ( 4 ) Overall 5.0 Ease of Use 4.8 Customer Service 5.0 Features 4.8 Value for Money 5.0 View Profile An all-in-one suite of configurable compliance solutions for administering the KYC, KYB, and AML covering 247 jurisdictions. Learn more about iComplyKYC KYC features reviewers most value Background Screening Compliance Management Document Management Fraud Detection Identity Verification Optical Character Recognition PEP Screening Real-Time Monitoring Risk Management Compare Alloy 5.0 ( 4 ) Overall 5.0 Ease of Use 4.8 Customer Service 4.8 Features 4.8 Value for Money 4.7 View Profile Alloy solves the identity risk problem for banks and fintech companies. Learn more about Alloy KYC features reviewers most value Background Screening Compliance Management Document Management Fraud Detection Identity Verification Optical Character Recognition PEP Screening Real-Time Monitoring Risk Management Compare Themis 4.8 ( 4 ) Overall 4.8 Ease of Use 4.5 Customer Service 5.0 Features 4.3 Value for Money 4.7 View Profile An end-to-end AML and KYC platform to manage your financial crime risk exposure, underpinned by world leading research and intelligence Learn more about Themis KYC features reviewers most value Background Screening Compliance Management Document Management Fraud Detection Identity Verification Optical Character Recognition PEP Screening Real-Time Monitoring Risk Management Compare Datakeen 5.0 ( 3 ) Overall 5.0 Ease of Use 5.0 Customer Service 4.5 Features 5.0 Value for Money 5.0 View Profile Datakeen is the automation platform for identity verification, intelligent document processing and customer reviews. Learn more about Datakeen KYC features reviewers most value Background Screening Compliance Management Document Management Fraud Detection Identity Verification Optical Character Recognition PEP Screening Real-Time Monitoring Risk Management Compare Onboard! 4.7 ( 3 ) Overall 4.7 Ease of Use 4.7 Customer Service 4.3 Features 4.7 Value for Money 4.3 View Profile The leading end-to-end customer onboarding solution for payments. One platform from prospect to retirement and everything in between. Learn more about Onboard! KYC features reviewers most value Background Screening Compliance Management Document Management Fraud Detection Identity Verification Optical Character Recognition PEP Screening Real-Time Monitoring Risk Management Compare Trapets 4.3 ( 3 ) Overall 4.3 Ease of Use 3.7 Customer Service 4.7 Features 4.0 Value for Money 3.3 View Profile Compliance solutions that help businesses onboard customers, automate KYC processes, and monitor transactions and suspicious trades. Learn more about Trapets KYC features reviewers most value Background Screening Compliance Management Document Management Fraud Detection Identity Verification Optical Character Recognition PEP Screening Real-Time Monitoring Risk Management Compare Know Your Customer 5.0 ( 2 ) Overall 5.0 Ease of Use 5.0 Customer Service 5.0 Features 5.0 Value for Money 5.0 View Profile Award-winning solutions for seamless client onboarding & real-time Digital KYC, automating 90% of KYC & AML compliance routine tasks. Learn more about Know Your Customer KYC features reviewers most value Background Screening Compliance Management Document Management Fraud Detection Identity Verification Optical Character Recognition PEP Screening Real-Time Monitoring Risk Management Compare NorthRow 4.5 ( 2 ) Overall 4.5 Ease of Use 4.5 Customer Service 4.5 Features 4.5 Value for Money 5.0 View Profile NorthRow enables you to make faster decisions and safely onboard customers in seconds whilst complying with ever-changing legislation. Learn more about NorthRow KYC features reviewers most value Background Screening Compliance Management Document Management Fraud Detection Identity Verification Optical Character Recognition PEP Screening Real-Time Monitoring Risk Management Compare 1 2 3 4 Page 1 of 4 Filter (87) Products: Sort By: Sponsored: Vendors bid for placement within our listings. This option sorts the directory by those bids, highest to lowest. Vendors who bid for placement can be identified by the orange “Visit Website” button on their listing. Highest Rated: Sorts products as a function of their overall star rating, normalized for recency and volume of reviews, from highest to lowest. Most Reviews: Sorts listings by number of user reviews, most to least. Alphabetical: Sorts listings from A to Z. Sponsored Sponsored Highest Rated Most Reviews Alphabetical Pricing Options Free Free Trial Monthly Subscription Annual Subscription One-Time License Features Address Validation Verifies and confirms the accuracy of an address AI/Machine Learning Software program that continuously adjusts its behavior based on observed data Authentication Verify the identity of users/devices to enable secure access Background Screening Researching and validating a person's criminal, educational, job or financial records Biometrics Identify or authenticate a person's identity through biological data such as fingerprints or facial patterns. Blockchain Support Supports access to crypto blockchains Compliance Management Track and manage adherence to policies for any service, product, process, or supplier Customer Data Management Searchable repository of information about clients Data Capture and Transfer Import, collect, and capture data from multiple sources Document Management Store, manage, and track all electronic documents in a centralized location Fraud Detection Identify and prevent suspicious activity Identity Verification Validating the identity of an individual or entity through verification of personal information or credentials Liveness Detection Securely detect whether a user is a fake representation or a live human being. Onboarding Process of familiarizing new clients, stakeholders or employees with the company, a new location, or a service Optical Character Recognition Ability to recognize printed or written text within digital images or scanned documents PEP Screening The process of conducting customer due diligence for any politically exposed person (PEP) Real-Time Monitoring Active monitoring of systems, applications, or networks Risk Management Process of identifying, evaluating, mitigating, addressing and reporting on potential risks or uncertainties show more Deployment Cloud, SaaS, Web-Based Desktop Mac Desktop Windows Desktop Linux On-Premise Windows On-Premise Linux Desktop Chromebook show more Company Size Small Business (1 - 200) Mid Size Business (201 - 500) Enterprise (500+) Related Software Category: AML Software OCR Software Identity Verification Software Financial Risk Management Software Compliance Software Authentication Software I'm looking for KYC Software that is: For Android Free For iPhone For Mac For Small Businesses Web-Based For Windows Top / WHO WE ARE The #1 destination for finding the right software and services We help your organization save time, increase productivity and accelerate growth. Learn More About Capterra Software Categories Service Categories FAQs Blog & Research Glossary Write a Review My Account About Us Careers Press Page Legal Terms Privacy Policy For Vendors Vendor Login Capterra Inc. 1201 Wilson Blvd Arlington, VA 22209 Email Us Independent research methodology Capterra’s researchers use a mix of verified reviews, independent research and objective methodologies to bring you selection and ranking information you can trust. While we may earn a referral fee when you visit a provider through our links or speak to an advisor, this has no influence on our research or methodology. How Capterra verifies reviews Capterra carefully verified over 2 million reviews to bring you authentic software and services experiences from real users. Our human moderators verify that reviewers are real people and that reviews are authentic. They use leading tech to analyze text quality and to detect plagiarism and generative AI. Learn more. How Capterra ensures transparency Capterra lists all providers across its website—not just those that pay us—so that users can make informed purchase decisions. Capterra is free for users. Software and service providers pay us for sponsored profiles to receive web traffic and sales opportunities. Sponsored profiles include a link-out icon that takes users to the provider’s website. Learn more.

---

risk scoring • 9 min read Best KYC software and tools Lenar Valk Business Development Manager Know Your Customer (KYC) involves understanding complex customer relationships to prevent unauthorised activity, including identity theft and fraud. KYC checks allow you to identify and verify your customers and follow global compliance practices. KYC checks are performed on new and potential customers when opening an account and periodically over time. With KYC software, you can get a better overview of your customers and reduce regulatory, financial and reputation risks. These days, it’s not just financial institutions that are required to perform KYC checks. More and more companies must protect their customers and business reputation. We made a list of the best KYC software providers to help you comply with KYC regulations and onboard customers while minimising risks to your business. This research is based on publicly available data including online user reviews. It reflects our individual opinions and aims to provide general information on the existing KYC software solutions. This is not a ranking: all solutions are presented in a randomised order. Salv – All-in-one AML Platform Veriff – AI-Powered Identity Verification Ondato – End-to-End KYC Management Quantexa – Contextual KYC Platform Fullcircl – Automated KYC & AML Platform Jumio – Online Identity Proofing and eKYC NorthRow – AML & KYC/B Onboarding Platform Onfido – AI-Powered Identity Verification Solution Trulioo – Automated Identity Verification & Compliance Togggle - Decentralised KYC Solution iDenfy – Identity Verification, AML, and KYB Solution What is KYC software? Many companies choose KYC software to meet legal requirements and create an environment that provides safety and accountability for their customers. KYC software enables companies to develop trust and establish competitive market strategies while adhering to global regulations. KYC software ensures that financial service providers and businesses operate robust policies and minimise the impact of money laundering, with consumer wellbeing in mind. Features of KYC software Your choice of KYC software should be based on the balance between compliance and good customer experience. Consider in your comparison the following features: Identity verification to analyse digital footprints and better understand who your customers are Document verification to verify the validity of submitted documents and prove document ownership Customer onboarding to streamline the onboarding process and avoid application abandonment Anti-Money Laundering (AML) features to enhance compliance defences with customer and transaction screening and monitoring. Here is our selection of best AML software KYC software allows you to take advantage of the latest technology to overcome operational constraints, and reduce compliance workload and related costs. Best KYC software and tools Salv Salv is a RegTech company that delivers AML software for banks and fintechs, taking them beyond traditional approaches in compliance. Salv does not provide full KYC functionality, but it can save you a lot of time and money by weeding out fraudulent users and keeping your good customers safe. Salv Platform takes care of your customer and transaction screening and monitoring with real-time checks and easily configurable rules. Its one and only counterparty monitoring feature gives you visibility of all counterparties, including those who are not immediately flagged as suspicious. Salv Risk Scoring is a component of Salv Platform, designed to calculate customer risk based on KYC data and transactional behaviour. Best thing about Salv : The score produced by Salv Risk Scoring can give you a better understanding of your customer risk landscape. Risk scoring rules can help you detect potential issues and mitigate the risks. Salv’s risk scoring rules match the latest FinCEN & FCA guidelines and audit scenarios. Veriff Veriff offers leading-edge technology to simplify and streamline your KYC processes. By integrating AI functionality into its products, Veriff brings a new level of precision and transparency to the onboarding process, allowing you to quickly identify fraudulent activity and make necessary changes. Veriff’s automated and customer-focused approach delivers clear benefits to consumers and businesses, proved by higher fraud prevention rates and faster conversions of valuable customers. Best thing about Veriff : You can secure customer accounts and convert more account holders with advanced facial recognition and assisted image capture technology. Veriff replaces legacy authentication practices and creates a safe environment for the consumer. Ondato Ondato provides a modular operating system for end-to-end KYC management and customer onboarding. A single dashboard view allows you to navigate through Ondato’s modules seamlessly: you can verify and onboard new customers, authenticate returning customers, and manage customer data. With Ondato, you can build a robust KYC platform by choosing modules that match your business needs. This approach can help you reduce operational workload and KYC-related business costs.
Best thing about Ondato: Ondato covers the full spectrum of compliance challenges, providing a central hub for AML/KYC compliance. The prices are quoted on the website – decide if it’s right for you before you book a demo. Quantexa Quantexa enables contextual decision intelligence to give you a better picture of your customers, optimise and automate compliance processes, and drive more intelligent decisions. Quantexa guides you with context, matching internal and external data points to detect hidden risks and enhance customer experience and operational performance. Best thing about Quantexa : Contextual Decision Intelligence (CDI) platform provides a connected view of data that facilitates a deeper understanding of KYC. Quantexa’s contextual approach takes you beyond direct risk identification and unlocks new growth opportunities while reducing time and cost throughout the KYC lifecycle. Fullcircl Fullcircl offers a customer lifecycle intelligence platform that maximises customer relationships and streamlines onboarding with automated KYC checks. The platform matches data points and enriches data to create deeper insights for your business. API-first approach allows you to seamlessly integrate Fullcircl solutions, automate manual processes and optimise KYC operations with an accurate and contextual view of data. Best thing about Fullcirl : Fullcircl transforms onboarding and reduces customer acquisition costs with a higher level of automation and contextualised view of data. Sophisticated data-matching algorithms and visualisation methods can give you a good overview of potential business customers and partners in the UK and Ireland. Jumio Jumio helps you reduce inefficiencies in your onboarding process by offering a complete suite of identity verification, authentication, and AML solutions. With Jumio, you can build trust in your customers – trust which has commercial value. By carrying out enhanced identity checks, powered by Jumio KYX Platform, you create a safety net for your customers and your business. Best thing about Jumio : Jumio has been around since 2016 and has already processed over 1 billion transactions from over 200 countries. It offers integrations with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Azurian, Microsoft, Oracle, Okta, and more. Give it a try! NorthRow NorthRow is a leading provider of onboarding, customer remediation, and regulatory compliance services. You can optimise your customer onboarding and monitoring processes with NorthRow’s fully managed, low-tech service for enhanced due diligence. NorthRow is easy to integrate and easy to use. You can configure NorthRow to your requirements by using a single API solution. Best thing about Northrow : it brings together a powerful combination of AML and KYC services and tools, streamlining your transition to a better customer experience and faster growth. Onfido Onfido will guide you through the complex thickets of digital customer acquisition and identity verification solutions. Onfido connects your business with your customers in an authentic and genuine way, while helping you to maintain KYC and AML requirements in each of the regions where you operate. Best thing about Onfido : In 2022, Onfido launched its Real Identity Platform with the objective of making identity verification a more simple, intuitive, and intelligent process. Onfido’s Real Identity Platform combines trusted data sources, biometric verifications and fraud detection signals. Trulioo With Trulioo, you can automatically verify customers anywhere in the world, scale and grow your business while making sure it fits seamlessly into the local verification ecosystem. Best thing about Trulioo : Trulioo provides one integrated platform that serves as a centralised gateway to online document verification, business verification, including AML/KYC checks on ultimate beneficial owners, and proof of address verification. Togggle Togggle offers a robust KYC solution to combat identity fraud and establish trust within the financial services sector. The platform promises a seamless user experience, boasting a user base of 250,000 verified individuals and facilitating instant onboarding through a one-click KYC process. Best thing about Togggle : It includes decentralised storage, which reduces the risk of data breaches compared to centralised verification systems. The service is designed to be compliance-ready, staying ahead of the latest regulations, which allows businesses to concentrate on growth and development while Togggle handles the complexities of KYC compliance and data management. iDenfy iDenfy , an anti-fraud and compliance company from Lithuania, is recognised for its identity verification, AML, and KYB (Know Your Business) solutions. The average score is 4.9 from a maximum of 5. The platform offers an identity verification solution with more than 3000 identity documents supported from 200 countries and territories. There is a direct integration for PEPs, sanctions, and adverse media checks with ongoing screening. Instead of charging per every identity session, the company chose a different route - clients pay only per approved customer, omitting denied verifications due to fraud, expiry, or bad image quality. With over 500 worldwide customers, including the Bank of Lithuania, iDenfy offers business verification with access to official credit bureaus for 160 countries and government-issued registry reports. Everything is integrated into a single platform with an option to generate reports required by auditors. How to choose KYC software KYC software comes in many shapes and forms. Some providers focus on identity verification and customer onboarding, while others emphasise contextualising data and enhancing the entire KYC lifecycle with data-driven insights. When choosing a KYC vendor, you want to ensure they can help you understand and manage customer risk, improve the onboarding experience, and handle regulatory compliance. You want to minimise fraud in the onboarding process, maintain a superior customer experience, and make it cost-efficient. There are a few more steps you can consider to make the process easier: Understand your company’s needs . Depending on your requirements, you may want to choose individual components like identity verification and biometric authentication. Or choose a more comprehensive end-to-end solution covering KYC and AML processes and ensure the integrity of your compliance program. Check the effectiveness of your KYC software . Test customer data, pay attention to the speed of manual reviews, and cross-check the results. This should give you a solid understanding of your vendor’s technology and ability to deliver tangible outcomes. Make sure the integration process doesn’t take too long . How soon will the system be integrated, and how long are you willing to wait? Make sure you can integrate and access your KYC software quickly, and reduce cost and time. Frequently Asked Questions about KYC software What is KYC? KYC means “Know Your Customer”. It describes the process of verifying customers’ identities and removing bad actors early in the onboarding process. KYC check is a mandatory step that involves assessing customer risk when opening an account and periodically over time to reduce fraud, corruption, money laundering, and terrorist financing. What does the KYC process include? The KYC process is based on identity verification and authentication, including digital ID document verification, face recognition, and biometric authentication. It’s not just financial institutions that must comply with KYC regulations – nowadays, the responsibility lies with companies across various industries. What are the components of an effective KYC framework? Customer Identification, Customer Due Diligence (CDD), and Enhanced Due Diligence (EDD) are the three components of an effective KYC framework. Together they add up to a multi-step process of collecting customer information from trusted sources, scrutinising it for inconsistencies, understanding the risks and responding effectively. While CDD provides tools to differentiate between lower and higher-risk customers, EDD provides measures to drill deeper into customer relationships, detect and thoroughly investigate potential wrongdoing. What are the benefits of KYC? KYC compliance prevents flagged individuals from taking advantage of the financial system and minimises disruption in the industry. When done right, it can positively impact your business reputation and credibility in the market, transforming relationships with your competitors and customers. KYC software is paramount to building an effective onboarding process and monitoring customer relationships for potential risks. It empowers you to make informed decisions and act on them. KYC software has many features to strengthen your compliance while unlocking opportunities for innovation and growth. It may or may not cover money laundering and fraud detection, which can be a deal breaker for regulated institutions. There are a multitude of options for you to consider. At the same time, you don’t have to choose one or the other and feel like you are missing out on something. Learn how our modular, customisable platform can fill in the gaps in your AML/KYC program and save you time – you won’t need to look for another provider again. Risk Scoring Know before you trust. Manage onboarding risks with Salv Risk Scoring Learn more Table of Contents What is KYC software? Features of KYC software Best KYC software and tools Salv Veriff Ondato Quantexa Fullcircl Jumio NorthRow Onfido Trulioo Togggle iDenfy How to choose KYC software Frequently Asked Questions about KYC software Share this story ×

---

Understanding KYC and Its Best Practices Report this article Clear View Systems Ltd. Clear View Systems Ltd. Empowering Financial Companies Since 2003 Published Sep 26, 2023 + Follow In our increasingly digital age where financial transactions are being conducted online, there is an increasing need for robust mechanisms to ensure the legitimacy of individuals engaging in these financial activities. This is where KYC, or Know Your Customer, comes into play. KYC is a crucial process for financial institutions, designed to mitigate risks, prevent fraud, and maintain regulatory compliance. Let’s delve into the concept of KYC and explore some of the best practices associated with it! What is KYC? KYC, short for Know Your Customer, is a set of procedures that financial institutions implement to verify the identity of their customers. The primary objective of KYC is to ensure that customers are who they claim to be, thus reducing the risk of financial crimes such as money laundering, fraud, and terrorist financing. The KYC process involves the collection and verification of various customer details, including personal identification, financial history, and the purpose of the account or transaction. Not only is KYC compliance a legal requirement but also necessary for businesses to build customer trust and prevent financial crimes. Best Practices in KYC 1. Customer Due Diligence Customer Due Diligence is the process of collecting and verifying customer information. This includes obtaining identification documents, verifying the authenticity of these documents, and ensuring that the customer's identity matches the information provided. This also involves assessing the customer's financial background and the purpose of the financial relationship. 2. Risk-Based Approach Another fundamental aspect of KYC is the adoption of a risk-based approach. This means that financial institutions assess the risk associated with each customer or transaction and tailor their KYC procedures accordingly. High-risk customers, such as politically exposed persons (PEPs) or businesses in certain industries, may require more extensive due diligence compared to low-risk individuals. 3. Sanction Screening Sanction screening is now an integral part of KYC, as part of Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorist Financing control. Financial institutions must check customer names against sanctions lists, which are released by governments or international organizations, to ensure they are not dealing with individuals or entities associated with criminal or terrorist activities. 4. Robust Record Keeping Maintaining accurate and comprehensive records of KYC processes and customer interactions is essential for compliance and audit purposes. Financial institutions must keep records for a specified period, as required by regulatory authorities. 5. Ongoing Monitoring KYC is also not a one-time process. Financial institutions must continuously monitor customer accounts and transactions to detect any suspicious or unusual activity. They also need to keep up with any changes to sanctions lists or compliance rules. This ongoing monitoring helps identify potential risks and ensures compliance with evolving regulatory requirements. 6. Employee Training KYC procedures are only as effective as the employees implementing them. Regular training and awareness programs ensure that staff members are well-informed about KYC requirements and the changing financial regulations. The Role of Financial Software in KYC With increasing concerns over financial security, KYC automation and technology have emerged to help financial businesses stay compliant. Not only does it reduce the time and cost involved in the KYC process, but it can also reduce human error and help businesses comply with regulations more effectively. 1. Identity Verification An automated KYC software can be integrated with various identity verification services, making it easier to verify customer identities through biometrics, document verification, or other authentication methods. This reduces the time, cost, and human fallibility that is associated with manual verification, leading to a more efficient and accurate process. 2. Data Collection and Storage Financial software can collect, store, and manage vast amounts of customer data securely. It streamlines the process of gathering essential information and ensures data accuracy. Furthermore, the software can also automatically generate comprehensive reports and maintain audit trails of all KYC activities from this data. This documentation is invaluable during regulatory audits and investigations. 3. Sanction Screening Automated sanction screening is a crucial feature of financial software. It can instantly cross-check customer names against global sanctions lists, minimizing the risk of engaging with prohibited individuals or entities. 4. Continuous Monitoring One major advantage of financial software with continuous monitoring abilities is that it can help maintain compliance throughout a customer’s journey through regular checks and updates. This way, with any changes to regulations or sanctions lists, businesses will automatically be notified of changes to their clients’ status. This flexibility ensures that financial institutions remain compliant with changing rules and regulations. Clear View’s KYC Compliance Technology KYC is an indispensable part of the financial industry, ensuring transparency, security, and compliance with regulatory requirements. The right KYC software can be crucial in simplifying and enhancing the KYC process. By combining best practices and cutting-edge technology, financial institutions can effectively mitigate risks and maintain the integrity of their operations. Here at Clear View, our automated system helps financial institutions stay compliant with sanction screening, customer risk monitoring, KYC profile, and identity verification, all with our KYC2020 integration. Contact us to see a free demo today! Like Comment Copy LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Share 18 To view or add a comment, sign in More articles by this author No more previous content The Projected Growth of Foreign Exchange Services Sep 12, 2023 The Vital Role of Automated CRM Contact Verification Aug 1, 2023 Automated Identity Verification: Safeguarding Against Fraud in AML Compliance Jun 29, 2023 Building a Culture of Integrity: AML Compliance Requirements for Businesses May 5, 2023 Foreign Exchange Rates & COVID-19 Jun 9, 2021 No more next content Sign in Stay updated on your professional world Sign in By clicking Continue to join or sign in, you agree to LinkedIn’s User Agreement , Privacy Policy , and Cookie Policy . New to LinkedIn? Join now Explore topics Sales Marketing IT Services Business Administration HR Management Engineering Soft Skills See All

---

Best practices for KYC compliance Home Blogs Best practices for KYC compliance What is AML KYC compliance? KYC is an abbreviated version of Know Your Customer . It is basically an important function that helps assess the risk-bearing power of your customers and legal abiding to comply with the laws of Anti-Money Laundering. Best practices for KYC Compliance majorly revolve around knowing the identity of your customers, the risk they possess, and their overall financial activities. AML Best practices for KYC Compliance Being a business owner, it is essential for you to know your customer well. If you are a financial institution or designated non-financial business or profession (DNFBP) , you might face possible sanctions, reputational damage, and fines upon professionally collaborating with terrorists or money launderers. KYC is the essential control mechanism that protects your business enterprise from losses and fraudulent activities that might result from illegal transactions or funds. A KYC is basically a systematic process that any financial institution or business enterprise undertakes. This systematic process includes the following steps. Establishing the identity of the customer. Understanding the actual goal behind customer's activities. The ultimate motive behind this is to identify that the source of the customer's funds is both legally appropriate and legitimate. Effectively assess the risks associated with a particular or all the customers with the sole purpose of monitoring their activities. Dealers in precious metals and stones;Real estate agents and brokers; The article revolves around the best practices you must follow in order to comply with the process of knowing your customer. Characteristics of an effective and best practice for KYC Compliance To build and run an effective AML KYC strategy , you require the following elements. 1.	Customer Identification Program or CIP The only reason why the KYC process is conducted is to identify the legitimacy and authenticity of your customers. One of the most essential elements for successful and Best practices for KYC Compliance is to assess the risk of your customers. This risk assessment should be carried out at an individual level as well as on an institutional level. The Best practices for KYC Compliance provide qualitative guidance to determine the accurate risk level and the policies to mitigate those levels of risks. The minimum requirements needed for the opening of an individual financial account are somehow delimited in the process of the customer identification program. The data gathered includes: Name Address Contact number Nationality Date of birth Place of birth Occupation Employer name Purpose of transaction Beneficial owner Identification number The same information is then verified with the original source document by at least 2 independent verifiers to ensure accuracy and authenticity. The process of identity verification includes non-documentary and documentary methods like comparing all the information provided by the customer with the help of consumer reporting agencies and public databases, documentary method, or an intelligent combination of both. The procedures mentioned above are considered the core of the Best practices for KYC Compliance because, unlike other Anti-money Laundering compliance methods, this stands solid and reliable. The procedures need to be codified and clarified in order to provide guidance to executives, staff, and many other benefits to the regulators. However, it is crucial for you to note that the actual policies or procedures will depend upon the risk-based approach of the financial institution. There are a few factors that you can consider while framing the actual process or procedures. The enterprise risk related to the risk exposure of the business itself Geographic risk related to the kind of countries a business deal with Product, service, or transaction-related risk Customer/business relationship-specific risk Channel related risk and Other risks 2.	Customer Due Diligence (CDD) For every financial institution, the only thing that matters is to identify whether you can trust the potential client or not. Customer Due Diligence is basically a critical element that effectively manages your risks and protects your company against terrorists, politically exposed parties (PEPs) , and criminals who might involve a heavy risk quotient with them. There are only three levels of customer due diligence. Simplified Due Diligence (SDD) is basically the situation where the overall risk of terrorist financing or money laundering is relatively low, and customer due diligence is not required. Low-value accounts make the best example of SDD. Basic Customer Due Diligence is practically the information obtained for all the respective potential customers to verify their identity and assess the overall risk associated with that particular customer. Enhanced Due Diligence (EDD) is associated with potential high-risk customers. It is all about gathering additional information about your customers who carry a high-risk profile, verifying and evaluating the information to mitigate the associated risks. In order to enhance the effectiveness of your due diligence program, here are a few steps you can follow. Ascertain the location and the identity of the potential customers and invest time to understand their basic business activities in-depth. It can be as easy as finding a legal document that verifies your potential customer's name and address. When authenticating a potential customer, identify their risk category and define what type of customer they are, and then store their information digitally Beyond basic customer due diligence, it is vital that you carry out various processes to ascertain whether there is room for enhanced due diligence. This could be an ongoing process because the existing customer might convert into high-risk profile customers over time. To avoid the cumbersome situations that may arise, it is better to conduct periodic due diligence assessments on all the existing customers. Following is the list of factors that you must keep in mind to identify the need for enhanced due diligence (EDD) . Occupation of the customer Location of the customer Types of transactions Expected mode of payments Expected patterns in terms of the kinds of transactions, frequency of commerce, and the value of transactions Maintaining a record of all EDD and CDD performed on each customer is essential for regulatory audits AML UAE will help you out in knowing your customers, both individuals or corporate houses, in terms of their risk profiles, nature of business, management, and ownership stakes so that you can remain compliant with UAE AML laws. Contact Us Now! 3.	Ongoing monitoring Monitoring your customers or potential customers once is not enough. You must develop an ongoing monitoring plan. The continuous monitoring function incorporates oversight of financial transactions and the thresholds developed to map the customer's risk profile. Depending upon the risk profile of your customer, along with the risk mitigation strategies , you have to monitor a few additional factors. Spikes or surprisingly enhanced activities Unusual cross-border activities or trading with the black-listed geographies Inclusion of people on the sanctioned lists Adverse or negative media mentions A business might be required to file a suspicious transaction report (STR) if the account's activities appear unusual. The level of transaction monitoring depends on the risk-based assessment. Corporate KYC for AML Similar to individual accounts, corporate accounts also require KYC, identification, monitoring, and due diligence. The process of corporate account KYC is almost the same as of the individual KYC. However, the demands are different. For corporate accounts, the volume of transactions increases along with the amounts per transaction, and several other risk factors are usually elevated, and hence more procedures are involved. These procedures are therefore known as Know Your Business (KYB). Every jurisdiction has its own defined type of KYB requirements. However, there are four common steps that you can implement. Retrieve the vitals of your company Identify and verify the basic company information like registered number, address, name of the company, status, and the key management employees. On the other hand, it depends on your fraud prevention standards and jurisdiction when it comes to gathering specific information. You have to systematically collect all this information and cautiously feed it into your workflows. Analyze the ownership structure Identify the people who have ownership rights of the company through direct or indirect means. These can be individuals or a team of individuals. Identifying ultimate benefit owners Calculate the total stake of ownership and management control of any individual to determine whether it crosses the threshold for ultimate beneficial owners (UBO) or not. Carry out AML/KYC checks All the individuals you have identified as Ultimate Benefits Owners should undergo an AML or a KYC check. Final words : AML KYC Best Practices Knowing your customer is an integral part of your business. For businesses like auditors and accountants, lawyers, notaries, and other legal professionals, company and trust service providers, dealers in precious metals and stones (DPMS) , real estate agents and brokers, the importance of AML KYC increases exponentially and should be performed thoroughly without a single casualty. Any error in the process can cause you qualitative as well as quantitative losses. FAQs About AML KYC Compliance What are CDD and EDD in KYC? CDD verifies the information obtained from the customer to assess the overall risk associated with the customer. At the same time, EDD is level-up CDD when additional checks are performed for high-risk customers, such as establishing the legitimacy of the source of the customer’s funds and seeking management approval before transacting with the customer. What are the basic requirements of KYC and basic CDD? The basic requirements of KYC and CDD involve identification of the customer and their crucial information like nationality, contact details, address, business activities, the purpose of the transaction, etc., and verifying the authenticity of the information to determine the overall risk to the company from the particular customer, before onboarding the customer. Share via : Share on facebook Share on twitter Share on linkedin Add a comment Related Blogs 22/11/2024 Understanding the Predicate Offences to prevent money laundering 24/10/2024 Offshore Banking and the Increasing Risks of Money Laundering 24/10/2024 AML measures for non-face-to-face customers: Combatting money laundering threats Comment * Name * Email * Website * CAPTCHA Email This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Δ About the Author Linkedin-in Pathik Shah FCA, CAMS, CISA, CS, DISA (ICAI), FAFP (ICAI) Pathik is a Chartered Accountant with more than 26 years of experience in governance, risk, and compliance. He helps companies with end-to-end  AML compliance services, from conducting Enterprise- Wide Risk Assessments to implementing the robust AML Compliance framework. He has played a pivotal role as a functional expert in developing and implementing RegTech solutions for streamlined compliance.

---

Middle East ... Blogs Compliance, Risk & Due Diligence Data as a Service Media Monitoring & Intelligence Research

---

Resources Blog Top KYC Solution Providers and How to Choose the Best One Back to all blog posts Top KYC Solution Providers and How to Choose the Best One KYC, or know your customer , is an important process for many industries and plays a huge role during customer onboarding. While it is often mentioned in the context of the financial sector, it is legally required in gambling, alcohol, and even travel and tourism sectors. Businesses in these industries need robust KYC solutions that can verify and onboard their customers’ identities without causing unnecessary delays or the risk of compliance failures. Customers rarely look forward to KYC processes and often view them as a hindrance, and the wrong solution can drastically affect customer satisfaction and retention rates for a business. Let’s have a look at how KYC solutions work and how you can choose the best provider for your business. What is a KYC provider? In many industries, regulations demand organizations know who is availing their products or services and verify their customers are who they claim to be. These regulations aim to prevent money laundering operations and ensure extremist organizations are not using these products or services. They largely target financial institutions, but other industries can also fall under these rules. A KYC provider works with these companies to verify their customers’ IDs . These providers offer identity verification services with the help of verified databases of identity documents. When customers share their IDs, KYC providers will compare them against their database to verify their authenticity. Organizations without robust KYC or document verification may face What are the benefits of using KYC technology? KYC technology helps companies know who they’re doing business with. This can help them make better business decisions and, at the same time, comply with regulations. But it doesn’t end there. Let’s review some of the benefits of using KYC technology. Simplifying the identification process In many industries, such as gambling, alcohol, marijuana, and others, businesses cannot offer their services before verifying their customers’ identities. However, manual verification is often not fast or accurate enough for regulatory compliance and customer satisfaction. A KYC solution can accurately check customer IDs against multiple data sources and verify them in a short time. The ID process can also help these businesses in payment fraud prevention. Fighting money laundering One of the main goals of KYC regulations is to prevent money laundering activities and other forms of financial crimes. These anti-money laundering (or AML) regulations work by verifying customers’ identities and ensuring all transactions can be easily tracked to the source. AML and KYC laws go a long way to counter terrorism financing . It’s an important step for security and stability. Preventing fraudulent activity Businesses investing in KYC solutions can protect themselves from financial fraud to a large extent. In many scenarios, businesses often end up taking the loss in the event of payment fraud or other financial crimes. Retail D2C and B2C businesses, and their customers, are particularly vulnerable to identity theft scams and stolen payment cards. Robust identity verification and KYC solutions can help companies fight digital fraud in their business activities. Protecting customer data Besides reducing financial risks, KYC solutions can also protect customer data. As a business, you have a moral (and often legal) responsibility to safeguard your customer data. A KYC solution can ensure that only your customers can access their data (and no more) and that you don’t inadvertently share your customer data with potential identity thieves. This is particularly important for online businesses and companies managing sensitive customer data. Protecting from unauthorized third-party access Businesses often have strict rules about who they will provide services or products to. This may be partly due to regulatory reasons and partly for ease of doing business. For instance, many B2B vendors have policies so that extremist organizations don’t access their services or products. However, many third parties use fake IDs or other ways to access these services without the business owner’s knowledge. It could be organizations involved in the sale of banned goods attempting to use financial institutions for money laundering or extremist organizations attempting to purchase electronic devices. Robust KYC solutions can help prevent this, keep businesses safe, and protect their reputations. Protecting your business The absence of KYC measures can increase the risk of financial fraud in your business. It can also expose your business to fines and penalties and can even affect your reputation in the long run. KYC solutions help your organization in fraud prevention, risk reduction, and regulatory compliance. It makes building trust with customers easier, reducing the likelihood of fraudulent activities and staying compliant with the ever-changing regulatory landscape. Top KYC providers you should consider for your business KYC is a vital process that can be made easy and seamless with the help of some top-notch KYC providers. With them, you can streamline your process and ensure your business stays compliant while also providing a better user experience for your customers. Here’s a look at the top choices and their capabilities and services. Microblink Microblink offers state-of-the-art KYC and identity verification solutions. These solutions are five times faster than alternate solutions and can verify over 2,500 ID documents from more than 170 countries. Powered by artificial intelligence, Microblink’s BlinkID can detect attempts to spoof or forge IDs and works with 45 comprehensive fraud checks, and is benchmarked 5x faster than its competitors. The solution supports Android, iOS, Flutter SDKs, and cloud-hosted and self-hosted APIs. Shufti Pro Shufti Pro is a powerful KYC solution that scans and verifies common ID documents from more than 200 countries. The solution can scan documents in bulk with 99% accuracy and prevent multiple enrollments or duplicate accounts in your systems. Trulioo Trulioo is an identity verification solution that covers more than 190 countries and works with more than 450 data sources. Trulioo offers protection against AML by working with over 6,000 global watchlists and using biometrics on top of ID documents to verify customers. Ondato Ondato offers multiple solutions for KYC, KYB (know your business), and monitoring transactions on your platform. It also offers business anti-money laundering capabilities through its software platform. Fractal ID Fractal ID offers KYC solutions largely to Web3 companies. Their solutions are designed for decentralized apps, blockchain ecosystems , investors, venture capitalists, and accelerators. Sumsub Sumsub offers high-speed KYC and KYB for businesses in different industries, including fintech, crypto, transportation, and more. They also offer transaction monitoring and fraud prevention solutions to protect your business. Seon Seon offers a wide range of tools to protect businesses from financial risks. They offer KYC and AML solutions and tech to prevent bonus abuse, chargeback fraud, payment fraud, checkout fraud, and other forms of fraud associated with eCommerce and online businesses. Onfido Onfido offers digital identity solutions catering to online and eCommerce businesses. Besides ID and document verification, Onfido also looks out for passive fraud signals to mitigate the risk for your business. Refinitiv Refinitiv is a leader in financial market data, offering KYC, ID verification, and account verification solutions for businesses. They also offer due diligence and onboarding solutions. KYC-Chain KYC-Chain offers various solutions for verifying customers and preventing money laundering. Besides traditional AML tools, they also have a set of tools to prevent money laundering through cryptocurrency or using blockchain tech. ComplyAdvantage ComplyAdvantage works largely in the B2B segment and offers KYB, transaction monitoring, and fraud prevention solutions. They also offer solutions for screening customers against sanctions, watchlists, and even negative media coverage . Mitek Systems Mitek Systems specializes in digital identity verification. Their KYC solution offers document verification, liveness detection, biometric verification, and more. How to choose a KYC provider Here’s how you can choose a KYC provider that works best for your business: Create a list of requirements The first step in choosing a KYC provider is to understand your business requirements. The specific needs vary with applicable regulations, compliance requirements, the nature of your business, and the overall risk management strategy. For instance, some businesses may need on-site ID verification, while some may need online verification. Some businesses may need liveness detection and biometric verification, while a simple ID verification may be enough for other businesses. Creating a list of requirements will help you narrow down the best-suited provider for your business. Research and compile a list of KYC providers There is no shortage of KYC providers or KYC tools. A simple Google search will provide a long list of KYC and AML compliance tool providers. Compiling a list of those meeting your specific business needs will help you choose a provider that aligns with your goals and requirements. Evaluate different providers Check if they meet all your requirements. Most providers will happily offer you demos and free trials, so take the time to check them out. Besides AML, these vendors may also have other tools to prevent fraud or streamline the customer onboarding process, which can reduce your risk and time to market. Consider future needs and scalability requirements Considering your business requirements, in the long run, is a good idea since changing vendors may be costly. As your business grows, you may need stronger verification solutions, and you’ll need them to scale with your business. That said, you’ll want to check if the vendor can keep up with your growing business. Key features to look for in KYC software KYC software provides various features that help organizations easily identify and verify their customers’ identities. These include: Helps in compliance with all applicable KYC rules: Make sure your KYC software can help your business stay compliant with all KYC regulations applicable in your jurisdiction and the industry your business is in. Can scale with the business: Your KYC solution must be able to grow with your business and support its needs. It must help with user identification and verification at scale. High-speed verification: When working with customers, speed is paramount. Slow verification can cause your business to lose out on customers. Accuracy and data quality: Make sure the software meets the accuracy and data quality requirements your business demands. User experience: Ensure the software is easy to use, even for people who are not very tech-savvy. Integration capabilities: Your KYC solution must integrate with all your customer-facing solutions, including your website and mobile app. Support options: Check for the vendor’s support in case your software faces any glitches or other issues. These features will help your business be fully compliant with regulatory requirements while also providing a seamless and efficient customer experience. The importance of choosing the right KYC solution provider KYC processes play a huge role in modern business transactions. Most industries are required by regulations to collect their customers’/clients’ ID documents and verify them. These companies need robust KYC solutions to stay compliant without inconveniencing customers or creating roadblocks in their processes. The good news is that modern KYC solutions use cutting-edge AI and machine learning algorithms to detect fraud and fake IDs, spot identity theft, and protect transactions on their platform. Businesses just have to ensure the solution they choose fits all their requirements. Contact us today to see how we can meet your specifications. October 16, 2023 Try it yourself Take a firsthand look at our our tried-and-true AI-powered products. See demos