Categories Credit Report & Scores Back View All Credit Report & Scores Score Advice Report Advice Back View All Report Advice Bankruptcy Charge Off Closed Accounts Collections Cosigning Credit Limit Credit Repair Denied Credit Dispute Foreclosure Inquiry Late Payment Negative Information Report Details Repossession Improve Credit Life Stages Back Establishing Credit Marriage Divorce Kids Employment Death of a Relative Students Fraud & Identity Theft Back View All Fraud & Identity Theft Fraud Alert Security Freeze Prevention Data Breach Cybersecurity Credit Cards Back View All Credit Cards Best Credit Cards Rewards Credit Cards Cash Back Credit Cards Balance Transfers Travel Credit Cards Secured Credit Cards Student Credit Cards Credit Card Basics APR Loans Back View All Loans Loan Basics Auto Loans Student Loans Personal Loans Insurance Back View All Insurance Auto Insurance Home Insurance Life Insurance Health Insurance Insurance Reviews Finance Back View All Personal Finance Banking Back View All Banking Savings Account Checking Account Certificate of Deposit (CD) Money Market Budgeting Saving Debt Mortgage Investing Retirement Taxes Small Business Latest News & Trends Advertiser Disclosure Fraud & identity theft 20 Different Types of Identity Theft and Fraud September 11, 2024  •  18 min read By Jim Akin Quick Answer Common types of identity theft and fraud include account takeover fraud, online shopping fraud and mail identity theft. Knowing the variety of scams and fraud can help you stay safe and protect credit cards, Social Security numbers, personal IDs and other information criminals can use to abuse your credit and steal your money. Identity theft and related fraud take many forms, and in 2023, these crimes racked up losses of more than $10 billion in the U.S., according to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). Familiarity with these scams can help you recognize them before you or a loved one become a victim—or minimize the damage if your personal information is misused. Note that these forms of fraud are not mutually exclusive: Criminals can use one form of crime to obtain data that enables others. So it's important to protect personal information and to maintain vigilance if you suspect your personal data has been exposed. Here are 20 different types of identity theft and fraud to know about: Account takeover fraud Debit card fraud or credit card fraud Driver's license identity theft Mail identity theft Online shopping fraud Social Security number identity theft Senior identity theft and scams Child identity theft Tax identity theft Biometric identity theft Synthetic identity theft Medical identity theft Mortgage fraud Home title fraud Passport fraud Internet of things identity theft Friendly fraud Employment fraud Unemployment fraud Crypto fraud 1. Account Takeover Fraud In account takeover fraud , criminals use stolen personal information such as account numbers, usernames or passwords to hijack bank accounts, credit cards, cellular phone services and/or email or social media accounts. How this type of fraud happens: Crooks access victims' accounts using stolen credentials. Then, they change the password, email, street address or phone number associated with the account, preventing the owner from accessing it. How to avoid it: Get in the habit of checking your social and financial apps or web dashboards regularly. You can use the opportunity to check for unusual transactions, and if you can't get access to your account, notify the provider immediately. When available, use multifactor authentication or biometric login procedures to hinder unauthorized account access. Consider using a password manager to generate and remember strong, random passwords, and change your passwords and PINs regularly: Experts recommend updating them as often as once every 90 days, or anytime you think one might have been compromised. Learn more >> Should I Use a Password Manager? 2. Debit Card Fraud or Credit Card Fraud In debit and credit card fraud, criminals use stolen financial information to make unauthorized purchases or access funds from your account. How this type of fraud happens: Using stolen account information, criminals make unauthorized debit card or credit card purchases or withdraw funds. Then, they leave you (or your financial institution) on the hook for the stolen funds. How to avoid it: Keep close watch on your credit and debit cards to minimize the chances of loss or theft, and so you'll know quickly if they go missing. Lock cards as soon as you suspect they've been misplaced, and request replacements if you don't locate them quickly. Study your card and checking statements carefully for signs of unauthorized use. Note that tiny transactions can occur when thieves link your account to their own accounts and may be precursors to more substantial withdrawals or funds transfers. Learn more >> How to Freeze a Credit Card 3. Driver's License Identity Theft Driver's license identity theft is when a criminal uses your driver's license to impersonate you. How this type of fraud happens: Your driver's license contains personally identifiable information (PII) that identity thieves can use to impersonate you or commit financial fraud. Driver's license identity theft occurs when a criminal steals your driver's license or obtains your license number illegally. They may use it to create a fake ID card or a synthetic identity, or to open new accounts in your name. How to avoid it: Only use your driver's license information when absolutely necessary, and keep your wallet safe. If your license is stolen, report it to the DMV and local police as soon as you discover it. Also, monitor your credit reports for signs of unauthorized activity. Learn more >> What Should I Do if My Driver's License Number Is Stolen? 4. Mail Identity Theft Mail identity theft happens when a criminal steals personal information from your mail, then uses the information they find to impersonate you or carry out acts of fraud. How this type of fraud happens: Criminals who steal mail from your mailbox or a postal facility can obtain and alter checks and cash them; obtain credit or debit cards they then misuse; or comb your bills and financial statements for personal information that helps them steal your identity. How to avoid it: Minimize reliance on paper checks by arranging for direct deposit of Social Security and pension payments, unemployment benefits and other recurring payments. Alert your card issuer if a new or replacement credit card isn't delivered in a timely fashion. Stop mail delivery when you're away from home for more than a day or two or arrange for a friend or neighbor to pick it up daily. Learn more >> How to Protect Yourself From Mail Fraud 5. Online Shopping Fraud Online shopping fraud is a specific case of card-not-present transactions—purchases made using a card number without having to present a physical card. How this type of fraud happens: Thieves who've obtained stolen card numbers, expiration dates and security codes can use that information to commit fraud, as can thieves who steal your username and password to shopping sites where you've stored credit card information. Criminals buy goods or gift cards which they use or resell, leaving you (or the merchant) with an unpaid bill or lost merchandise. How to avoid it: To protect yourself while shopping online , use strong passwords on your accounts with online retailers. Avoid storing credit card information in your account, and make sure you use secure Wi-Fi networks when shopping online. Cancel and replace cards as soon as they go missing or if you suspect your card number may have been compromised. Study your card statements closely and report any unauthorized transactions to the card issuer immediately. 6. Social Security Number Identity Theft Social Security number (SSN) identity theft happens when a criminal gets their hands on your SSN. When someone has your SSN, they can use it to steal your money or commit other acts of fraud by impersonating you. How this type of fraud happens: Unlike personal information that can be found in public records, SSNs are typically kept confidential and used to verify your identity with trusted institutions. Possession of your SSN can provide criminals with access to a wealth of personal records, which they can exploit in a variety of ways. Scammers may gain access to your SSN by: Stealing your Social Security card Transcribing your SSN when you read it aloud Obtaining it in a data breach How to avoid it: Don't carry your Social Security card in your wallet, and keep it in a secure place such as a safety deposit box. If you're asked for your SSN to verify your identity, see if the final four digits will suffice. Whether providing a full or partial SSN, make sure you know the party you're providing it to and that you do so in a way others cannot overhear. If you suspect criminals have obtained your Social Security number via a data breach or any other means, monitor your credit reports, financial statements and medical accounts closely for signs of abuse, and report suspicious activity to law enforcement as appropriate. Learn more >> Here's What You Should Do After a Data Breach 7. Senior Identity Theft and Scams Senior citizens can be targets of many types of fraud, but their reliance on Medicare and Social Security can make them especially susceptible to criminals posing as representatives of government agencies and health care providers. How this type of fraud happens: Using convincing emails, letters or phone contact, scammers earn victims' trust and persuade them to hand over money or sensitive information. For example, they may ask you to "pay back" bogus overpayments or give up Social Security numbers or other personal data that can be used for other criminal ends. Their approach typically leverages "official" authority and may include persuasion and scare tactics. For example, they may say, "Your benefits will end unless you act immediately." How to avoid it: Beware of any unexpected contact that requires immediate action, especially if it involves making a payment or providing SSNs or financial account information. Before responding to unexpected communication from government agencies or health care companies, confirm that it really comes from the source in question. Rather than providing information when an organization contacts you, call or email the relevant agency using contact info you look up online or on your account statement and verify whether there's a legitimate reason for the contact. Never give your SSN or financial information to someone who calls you and asks for it, especially if they're seeking information they should already have on file. Legitimate attempts to recover misplaced funds will always be made by mail. "Authorities" insisting on immediate payment—especially in the form of gift cards or electronic funds transfer—may well be scammers. Learn more >> Top Scams Targeting Seniors 8. Child Identity Theft Child identity theft is any kind of identity theft that targets minors. It can be especially difficult to detect child identity theft because the telltale signs may go undetected until the child applies for credit, usually after age 18. How this type of fraud happens: Criminals may be able to use minor children's Social Security numbers and other credentials to take out illicit credit card accounts and to commit other forms of identity theft, much as they do with adults' personal information. How to avoid it: Children don't normally have credit reports, but as a parent or guardian, you can obtain one for each child at the three national credit bureaus (Experian, TransUnion and Equifax). You also have the right to freeze your child's credit report to help protect them from credit fraud. Learn more >> How to Protect Your Child From Identity Theft 9. Tax Identity Theft Tax identity theft is when someone uses your personal information to carry out tax fraud. How this type of fraud happens: The most common form of tax identity theft occurs when a criminal uses your Social Security number and other personal information to file a tax return in your name so they can steal your refund. Fraudsters can also use your stolen credentials to get jobs they're legally ineligible for, which may cause their earnings to be logged as your taxable income. How to avoid it: Understand that the IRS always makes its first official outreach by postal mail, so be skeptical of any phone call, email or text supposedly from the IRS that isn't preceded by a letter. Tax fraudsters often harvest information by posing as IRS representatives, using email, text or phone calls. Their goal is to trick victims into disclosing their SSNs and other personal details with false promises to expedite a refund or prevent an audit, for example. If you get a letter from the IRS, read it carefully and follow up; if it concerns activity that's unfamiliar to you, identity theft could be in play. 10. Biometric Identity Theft Biometric ID theft hijacks security measures such as facial recognition and fingerprint recognition, which use physical characteristics to unlock computers, phones, tablets and other secured devices. How this type of fraud happens: Criminals may use high-resolution photos, fingerprints lifted from glassware or other facsimiles of your physical traits to gain access to your devices and the personal data they contain. They may also link your personal information to their own fingerprints, faces or other biometric identifiers when attempting to impersonate you. How to avoid it: Replicating your physical traits to unlock your devices is relatively difficult, and enabling biometric security measures can help safeguard your data. In case your device is stolen, familiarize yourself with the procedures for locking it remotely so thieves can't readily access its contents, change passwords or assign new biometrics to its security settings. 11. Synthetic Identity Theft Synthetic identity theft is a form of fraud where an identity thief combines stolen information from one victim with other (real or invented) information to compile a new, false identity. How this type of fraud happens: Synthetic identity theft occurs when criminals merge elements of your personal information with those of one or more other victims to create a fictitious identity. They may get their hands on victims' information through phishing, for example. Crimes committed through synthetic identity theft can be hard to detect because no single victim is likely to be aware of the full extent of the fraudulent activity. How to avoid it: Monitor your credit reports and financial accounts for unusual activity. Also watch out for and consider following up on mail addressed to persons who don't reside at your address or phone inquiries seeking individuals you don't know. 12. Medical Identity Theft Medical identity theft is when someone fraudulently uses someone else's personal information to obtain unauthorized medical treatment, prescriptions or medical equipment. How this type of fraud happens: Medical identity theft often involves persons known to the victim, and can generate large bills. Thieves may use documents proving your identity (such as your driver's license or Social Security card), or your health insurance card or policy number, to receive medical services. How to avoid it: Take care to limit access to your insurance ID cards. Monitor your medical statements carefully to check for unfamiliar charges. Check your credit reports regularly for signs that medical service providers are attempting to collect unpaid bills. Notify your health insurer and medical provider immediately if you see anything suspicious. Learn more >> How to Avoid Medical Identity Theft 13. Mortgage Fraud Mortgage fraud occurs when a party in a home sale intentionally misleads the other party about the nature of the transaction. How this type of fraud happens: A home seller might commit mortgage fraud by concealing information or defects that adversely affect the home's value (and the amount a lender would be willing to offer for financing). On the other hand, a buyer might commit fraud by falsifying their income or assets in order to secure a larger mortgage than they can afford. How to avoid it: The best way to avoid mortgage fraud is to work with reputable real estate professionals, including agents, mortgage brokers, attorneys and appraisers. You should never fudge information on a mortgage application or disclosure form, and avoid any professionals who suggest it. 14. Home Title Fraud Home title fraud is a type of scam in which a criminal steals a home's title to change ownership of the home into their name. How this type of fraud happens: Home title fraud occurs when someone impersonates you to gain possession of your property title. Then, they use it alongside other personal information to transfer ownership to themselves. This enables them to use your home as collateral on loans and lines of credit they won't repay, which could lead to foreclosure. How to avoid it: If you receive notices from your mortgage servicer or a property tax bill in someone else's name, or your automatic mortgage and tax payments stop without explanation, look into the possibility of title fraud. You can also verify the status of your home title with your county's deed office or use a commercial title protection company to safeguard its status. Tip: If you're interested in title protection, be sure to research providers yourself. An unsolicited offer from such a company could be a scam. 15. Passport Fraud Passport fraud is when a criminal uses a lost or stolen passport to commit identity theft, possibly by impersonating a victim or creating false travel documents. How this type of fraud happens: Criminals may use stolen passports to enter a country illegally or carry out financial crimes, such as smuggling. Also, because a passport is a legal ID, they also could use it to impersonate you. For example, they could attempt to open a bank account or commit other fraud in your name. In some cases, criminals may also use the identity of a deceased person to apply for a passport. How to avoid it: At home, secure your passport in a safe or safe deposit box . When traveling, store your passport in a secure wallet and keep it on your person or in a hotel safe. If your passport is lost or stolen, you can invalidate it by reporting it missing . If you're out of the country, contact your local embassy or consulate for assistance. Learn more >> How to Protect Yourself From Passport Scams 16. Internet of Things Identity Fraud This fraud takes advantage of security flaws in your internet-connected devices to go after your personal data. How this type of fraud happens: The internet of things (IoT) refers to smart appliances, thermostats, TVs and digital assistant speakers that communicate over the internet via your home network. Security flaws in your home devices can create an opening for criminals to hack into your network, steal your personal data, or make unauthorized purchases using your credentials. How to avoid it: Securing your home's network, including your Wi-Fi router, is a good place to start. Reset default passwords for all devices and replace them with unique, secure ones. Then, change your passwords out at least annually (when you change your smoke alarm batteries, for example). 17. Friendly Fraud Merchants and credit card issuers use the term "friendly fraud" to distinguish chargeback theft by legitimate cardholders from those of unfriendly thieves who use stolen credentials. How this type of fraud happens: Friendly fraud occurs when a cardholder makes an online purchase via credit card, receives the order, then obtains a refund by falsely claiming the item was never delivered or that it was defective or otherwise not as the seller described. Friendly fraud can also occur unintentionally if a family member or other person with permission to use a card misuses it and then denies having done so, prompting the cardholder to reverse a legitimate charge. How to avoid it: The main way you can avoid friendly fraud is ensuring you only dispute credit card charges that you're confident are fraudulent. Being aware of when and how others use your card can help prevent the accidental kind of friendly fraud. 18. Employment Fraud In employment fraud, a scammer lures job seekers into giving up personal information or money using fake job opportunities. How this type of fraud happens: Employment fraud preys on job seekers by recruiting victims to "lucrative" nonexistent positions. Then, they tell you that you must pay to finalize the hiring process. They may ask you to purchase safety equipment, training materials, uniforms or other bogus goods or services. Once they have your money, the recruiters vanish without a trace. How to avoid it: If approached with a job prospect via email, text or social media, do not respond until you do some investigating. Contact the hiring company or recruiter directly (using a phone number or email address you obtain via web search) to confirm whether the outreach is legitimate. Look for a relevant LinkedIn profile for the person who's contacted you. Even if all that checks out, if the recruiter seeks payment of any kind, break contact. Report the scam to appropriate authorities, including the platform where you received the messages. 19. Unemployment Fraud Unemployment fraud is a type of identity theft in which a criminal impersonates someone in order to collect unemployment benefits. How this type of fraud happens: Using a victim's personal information, a criminal files a claim for unemployment insurance in the victim's name. Benefit payments may be deposited directly onto a bogus debit card or bank account. Victims may be unaware until they receive a 1099-G tax form reporting taxable unemployment income. Or, they may find out they've been targeted when they file for legitimate unemployment and find their benefits are used up. How to avoid it: If you don't have one, set up an account with ID.me — a third-party company that provides identity-verification services to many state and federal agencies. An ID.me account is a prerequisite to collecting unemployment in many states, and even if you never need to collect, setting up your ID.me account can prevent a scammer from doing so in your name. If you receive an unexpected 1099-G form or any other surprise communications regarding unemployment benefits you haven't applied for, follow U.S. Department of Labor guidelines for reporting unemployment scams. Learn more >> Unemployment Scams to Watch Out For 20. Crypto Fraud Crypto fraud is a type of scam that uses cryptocurrency to trick people out of money. How this type of fraud happens: Because cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and Ether aren't well-regulated, there can be potential confusion over their value and liquidity (ability to cash out). Cryptos are considered high-risk investment vehicles, and their value can fluctuate wildly. That makes them fertile ground for scammers offering bogus advice or get-rich-quick schemes. Crypto fraud can also happen when a scammer asks you to make payment through cryptocurrency. Because crypto payments are hard to trace, losses to crypto fraud can be hard to recover. How to avoid it: If you're curious about cryptocurrency as an investment tool, investigate by contacting a trusted financial advisor—not answering an email or text solicitation. And while some merchants accept cryptocurrency as payment, no legitimate businesses require that you pay that way, so turn away if you feel pressured to convert your cash to crypto. Beware crypto investment schemes that guarantee big gains, and avoid any person you meet through an online dating site who begins touting crypto schemes or pressuring you to get into cryptocurrency. Learn more >> How to Avoid Cryptocurrency Scams Frequently Asked Questions How Do You Know if You're a Victim of Identity Theft? Signs of identity theft include: Unexplained new accounts or hard inquiries on your credit reports, which can indicate fraudulent efforts to borrow money in your name. Communications from debt collectors or the appearance on your credit report of unexplained accounts in collection . Suspicious transactions on your credit card or checking accounts. Inability to log in to the smartphone apps or web dashboards for your credit cards or financial accounts. Unexplained stoppage or automatic payments on your mortgage, loan or credit accounts, or interruption of billing for those accounts if you pay them by mail. What Should You Do if You're a Victim of Identity Theft? Report the identity theft. File a report with local law enforcement and with the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) at IdentityTheft.gov (or call 877-438-4338 ). Place a fraud alert. You have the right to place a fraud alert on your credit reports instructing credit issuers to verify your identity before processing credit applications made in your name. Activating a fraud alert with any one of the three national credit bureaus triggers notifications to the other two bureaus. You can place a fraud alert by going to the Experian Fraud Alert Center . An initial fraud alert lasts one year; an extended fraud alert will remain on your credit reports for seven years and may require a copy of the police report you made to report the crime. Consider freezing your credit. You also have the right to freeze and unfreeze your credit report for free at all three credit reporting agencies. A credit freeze must be made with each credit bureau individually and will remain until you cancel or temporarily thaw it. Loop in your financial institutions. Contact the fraud departments at credit card issuers, banks or credit unions, and other places where you have financial accounts and advise them of your situation. Look for suspicious activity. Monitor your financial and medical statements for signs of additional criminal activity. You can sign up for free credit monitoring from Experian to be notified of any changes to your credit report. How Can You Protect Yourself From Identity Theft? While you can't completely prevent identity theft and fraud, there are actions you can take to protect your identity . Here are some preventive measures you can take: Protect your devices with strong passwords. Create strong passwords that include both lowercase and uppercase letters, numbers and symbols. Also make sure every password is unique. Use a password manager. Using a password manager is a secure way to store your passwords. Review your credit reports. Regularly checking your credit reports for possible signs of fraud, like new inquiries and accounts or unusually high balances, is a good proactive action. Set up bank account alerts. Make sure you activate bank account and credit card alerts so you can monitor transactions for any that may be fraud. Watch out for phishing attempts. Be wary of emails or texts from unknown senders that contain links or files. Don't click on anything in these messages since they're likely a phishing attempt . Be cautious about information you share on social media. While social media can be a good way to connect with others, you should be wary of sharing any personal information. Don't post your birthday, address or any sensitive information that could be misused by fraudsters. Learn more >> How to Protect Yourself From Identity Theft Should You Sign Up for an Identity Theft Protection Service? It may be worth signing up for identity theft protection services if you're at high risk of identity theft, or if you're not comfortable monitoring for signs on your own. Identity theft protection services can scan for compromised passwords, account numbers and personal information, and alert you to new activity on your credit reports. Keep in mind that these services can help you detect criminal activity, but you're responsible for following up on it and reporting fraud to law enforcement and the companies with whom you do business. The Bottom Line Identity thieves continually adapt to exploit changes in technology and the ways we do business and live our lives online. Protecting your personal information to avoid identity theft and fraud requires constant vigilance. Stay aware of evolving criminal methods, and consider enrolling in Experian's identity theft monitoring , which scans the web and alerts you if it finds personal information that's compromised. Monitor your Experian Credit Report Credit monitoring can help you detect possible identity fraud sooner, and can prevent surprises when you apply for credit. Get daily notifications when updates are detected. Get Free Monitoring Resources Credit Score Credit Score FAQs What Is a Good Credit Score? What Affects Your Credit Scores? What Are the Different Credit Score Ranges? Credit Report Credit Report Basics Credit Repair: How to “Fix” Your Credit Yourself Understanding Your Experian Credit Report How to Dispute Credit Report Information Fraud & Identity Theft Identity Theft Victim Assistance What Is Identity Theft? What Is Credit Card Fraud? How to Freeze Your Credit at All 3 Credit Bureaus Improve Credit How to Improve Your Credit Score What Is a Credit Utilization Rate? How to Build Credit: A Comprehensive Guide Personal Finance Is a Debt Consolidation Loan Right For You? Is a Debt Management Plan Right for You? How to Pay Off Credit Card Debt How to Get Out of Debt Calculators APR Calculator Personal Loan Calculator Credit Card Payoff Calculator Mortgage Calculator Car Payment Calculator Savings Calculator Latest Research Average Personal Loan Balance Grows 6.3% in 2023 Average Auto Lease Payment Climbs to $638, Slightly Less Than Loan Cost Car Buyers and Credit: What Auto Financing Means for Credit Scores View All Research Latest Reviews What Happens if You Max Out a Credit Card? Do Auto Insurance Companies Consider Your Credit Score? 10 Savings Challenges to Try in 2025 When Is FAFSA Due in 2025? How Often Should I Check My Credit Score? Where to Order Checks: Best Places

---

Fraudsters find novel ways to steal money and PII Get Published in Fraud Magazine menu menu Home Current Issue Topics Back Topics Case Studies Audit Data Analytics Accounting Profiles Investigation Health Care Career Global Archive Back Archive Online Exclusives Past Issues CPE Quiz Videos Resources Back Resources White Papers Advertise Reprints About Back About Subscribe to Fraud Magazine About ACFE Membership Get Published subscribe Log In Current Issue Topics Case Studies Audit Data Analytics Accounting Profiles Investigation Health Care Career Global Archive Online Exclusives Past Issues CPE Quiz Videos Resources White Papers Advertise Reprints About Subscribe to Fraud Magazine About ACFE Membership Get Published | Search Taking back the ID Fraudsters find novel ways to steal money and PII Identity-theft fraudsters with no consciences use any opportunity to find new victims. Witness attempts to rip off vaccine hunters, caring grandparents and desperate job seekers. July/August 2021 By Robert E. Holtfreter,  Ph.D., CFE Joe Johnson spent hours on websites trying to set an appointment to receive a COVID-19 vaccine. Then he received a text saying that the county health department was offering shots for a small fee. Johnson clicked on the message, was redirected to a website,
    set a date and entered his credit card number. He waited several days for a confirmation that never came. Johnson contacted the health department, where officials told him they didn’t have a record of his appointment and that they didn’t charge for
    vaccines. He then found the fraudsters had billed his online credit card statement. Johnson was conned. And he still wasn’t vaccinated. This case is fictional, but it represents a typical COVID-19 vaccine scam. Scamming shots in the arm The U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) is reminding the public that COVID-19 vaccines are free. Fraudsters are often loading malware onto victims’ computers and stealing personally identifiable information (PII) by selling supposed shots online. (See Covid Vaccines are FREE! by Colleen Tressler, FTC, April 20, 2021.) “Ignore online ads, social media posts, or phone calls from people offering to sell you the COVID-19 vaccine,” Tressler writes. “You can’t buy it [in the U.S.] — anywhere. The vaccine is only available at federal- and state-approved locations.” For full access to story, members may
                        sign in here. Not a
                        member? Click here to Join Now. Or Click here to sign up for a FREE
                        TRIAL. Related Articles Caring for the CARES Act: What comes next? SIGPR, the U.S. office mandated to audit and investigate fraud and abuse of the $2 trillion COVID-19 aid package known as the CARES Act, is now ready to take on the task at hand. It could be a busy few years ahead. EFIN tax scam, selecting reputable tax preparers, weather-related scams Unusual circumstances open opportunities for fraudsters, and 2021 is no exception. Not only has an uptick in online tax filings during the pandemic spurred new ways to cheat Americans out of their refunds, but utility scams related to winter deep-freezes are on the rise. Here’s what you should do to protect yourself. Record relief money and the fight against fraud In some of the first COVID-19 articles Fraud Magazine published nearly a year ago, we warned how the pandemic was creating the perfect storm for fraudulent activity to thrive. Sadly, those predictions have proven true as record amounts of COVID-relief money flood the economy. November/ December 2024 View the Issue Digital Edition Log in Member Services | Advertise | Archive Jonna Mendez unmasks CIA disguises Former Chief of Disguise Jonna Mendez reveals advanced disguises used by the CIA at the 35th Annual ACFE Global Fraud Conference in Las Vegas, Nevada. View the video . Sign up for a free 30-day trial September/October 2024 Issue Falsely accused of fraud On a winning streak Ready for the future Flexing instead of curtsying View entire issue July/August 2024 Issue Everything is a priority in the Southern District of New York The flawless fraud of real-time deepfakes A deeper understanding of occupational fraud The criminal mind of a fraudster View entire issue May/June 2024 Issue The perilous job of telling the truth Deconstructing academic fraud Stand by for guidance SEC's increasing scrutiny trend bodes well for anti-fraud professionals Fighting internal fraud with anonymous whistleblower hotlines View entire issue March/April 2024 Issue Defiant together Playing fair Behind the blocks The irrevocable trust View entire issue January/February 2024 Issue Fraud for sale What's that smell? Is a third party's use of encrypted email services a safeguard or a red flag? 5 most scandalous fraud cases of 2023 View entire issue contact us press room advertise acfe bookstore events & training privacy policy Subscribe ACFE Insights The Fraud Examiner Fraud Talk © 2024 Association of Certified Fraud Examiners, Inc. "ACFE," "CFE," "Certified Fraud Examiner," "CFE Exam Prep Course," "Fraud Magazine," "Association of Certified Fraud Examiners," the ACFE Seal, the ACFE Logo and related trademarks, names and logos are the property of the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners, Inc., and are registered and/or used in the U.S. and countries around the world. Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information ACFE Global Headquarters: 716 West Avenue, Austin, TX, 78701-2727 USA × Search

---

Categories / Identity Theft How Does Identity Theft Happen? (and How To Avoid It) Fraudsters have more ways than ever to steal your identity. But by learning their scams, you can help keep your identity, finances, and family safe. Fraudsters have more ways than ever to steal your identity. But by learning their scams, you can help keep your identity, finances, and family safe. March 28, 2024 By Hari Ravichandran Hari Ravichandran CEO and Founder of Aura Hari Ravichandran is the CEO and founder of Aura, with over 40 approved or pending technology patents to his name. He was recognized by Forbes magazine as one of the most powerful CEOs 40 and Under in 2014 and 2015. Hari holds an MBA from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania and a BS in Computer Engineering from Mississippi State University. Read full bio | Reviewed by Jory MacKay Jory MacKay Aura Cybersecurity Editor Jory MacKay is a writer and award-winning editor with over a decade of experience for online and print publications. He has a bachelor's degree in journalism from the University of Victoria and a passion for helping people identify and avoid fraud. Read full bio Aura’s app keeps you safe from scams, fraud, and identity theft. Try Aura for free. 4.6 stars as of Sept. 2024 In this article: What Is Identity Theft? What Are the First Signs of Identity Theft? How Does Identity Theft Happen? (17 Ways) Do You Think Your Identity Has Been Stolen? Do This The Bottom Line: Prevent Identity Theft and Protect Your Entire Family In this article: What Is Identity Theft? What Are the First Signs of Identity Theft? How Does Identity Theft Happen? (17 Ways) Do You Think Your Identity Has Been Stolen? Do This The Bottom Line: Prevent Identity Theft and Protect Your Entire Family See more Aura’s digital security app keeps your family safe from scams, fraud, and identity theft. See pricing Share this: What Is Identity Theft? Identity theft is the fraudulent acquisition (and exploitation) of your personally identifiable information (PII) for financial gain. Identity thieves can use your personal data for multiple types of identity theft, from bank and loan fraud to stealing your tax return or even receiving medical care in your name. You can become the victim of identity theft if scammers have access to PII such as your: Name Address Date of birth Phone number Social Security number (SSN) or your child’s SSN Online passwords and credentials Credit card numbers and other financial information While there’s no way to be 100% protected from identity theft, staying vigilant against fraud is the best way to safeguard yourself (and your family) from scammers. In this guide, we’ll cover the most common ways that identity theft happens — including the schemes and warning signs you need to be aware of to stay safe. {{show-toc}} What Are the First Signs of Identity Theft? The consequences of identity theft can be severe if swift action is not taken as soon as you see the warning signs. The sooner you spot the signs of identity theft , the better chance you have of shutting down scammers before they can do too much damage. If you think your identity is compromised, look for these warning signs: Unfamiliar charges or withdrawals on your credit card or bank statements. Being denied applications for new credit cards, or a sudden drop in your credit score. Notifications for new cards and accounts that you didn’t sign up for. Calls from creditors and debt collectors about purchases you never made. Unfamiliar medical bills or notifications saying that your healthcare benefits have been maxed out. Missing mail or signs that your mailbox has been tampered with. Password reset emails or 2FA codes that you didn’t request. You’re unable to log into online accounts using your usual password. Emails alerting you about a data breach. Fraud alerts from your bank or credit monitoring service. 🏆 Get award-winning protection against identity theft and fraud. Aura’s all-in-one digital security and identity theft protection solution has been rated #1 by Money.com, US News, Tech Radar and more. Try Aura free for 14 days and keep yourself safe from scammers. How Does Identity Theft Happen? (17 Ways) Phishing, smishing, and vishing Lost or stolen wallets Lost or stolen phones and digital devices Data breaches Home burglary Hackers “snooping” over public Wi-Fi Dark Web marketplaces Malware attacks Family identity theft Impostor scams Synthetic ID theft Weak data protection Malicious websites Credit card skimming Shoulder surfing Dumpster diving and mail theft Address manipulation fraud The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) received over 5.4 million reports of identity theft and fraud in 2023 alone — with victims losing upwards of $10 billion [ * ]. To protect yourself, you need to know how someone can steal your identity and what you can do to stop them. 1. Phishing, smishing, and vishing scams that steal your personal information Phishing attacks occur when cybercriminals pose as representatives from well-known companies or government agencies and trick you into giving up personal information, sending them money, downloading malware onto your devices, or clicking malicious links that take you to fake websites that steal your passwords and data. Phishing attacks can take place via emails, fraudulent text messages (known as “ smishing ”), social media messages, or phone calls (known as “ vishing ”). How to prevent identity theft via phishing attacks: Never respond to or click on links from texts or emails that you don’t recognize. If you need to check something related to an online service that you use, go directly to their website. Use antivirus software and a virtual private network (VPN) to secure your devices and network against hackers. Add your mobile and home phone number to the National Do Not Call Registry and learn how to block spam texts on your mobile phone. You should also report spam texts to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). Look for signs of a phishing attack , such as poor grammar and spelling, a sense of urgency (or threatening language), and unfamiliar or suspicious links. 📚 Related: How To Tell If An Email Is From a Scammer → 2. Lost or stolen wallets After James Ball got mugged and was robbed of his phone and bank cards, he thought the worst was over [ * ]. But when the attackers forced him to hand over his passwords, PINs, and phone ID, he didn’t realize that his nightmare situation was only getting started. By the time Ball got home and called the police, his assailants had emptied his bank account, locked him out of his email and other accounts, and stolen his identity . If your wallet (or purse) is stolen, scammers can gain access to your credit cards and IDs. Even just your driver’s license can provide enough personal information for a criminal to commit identity fraud, including your full name, home address, date of birth, signature, and picture. Scammers can use this information to run targeted scams against you, take out loans or new credit cards in your name, or sell your data on the Dark Web. How to prevent identity theft from lost and stolen wallets: Keep your wallet, purse, and sensitive documents safe at all times. Don’t carry your Social Security card or extra credit cards with you. Keep an updated list of what’s inside your wallet and check it regularly to make sure you didn’t lose a card. If your wallet or purse goes missing , alert your state Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV), local law enforcement, banks, and creditors as soon as possible. 📚 Related: Is Your Wallet Lost or Stolen? Do This, ASAP → 3. Lost or stolen phones and digital devices With access to your phone or other devices, cybercriminals could make unauthorized purchases using your linked credit cards, break into your email and online bank accounts, or find sensitive information, photos, and videos. How to prevent identity theft via lost digital devices: Secure your phone with “auto lock,” biometric security (such as facial recognition or fingerprint ID ), as well as a strong passcode. Never store passwords in your mobile browser (i.e. Safari or Google Chrome). If scammers steal your phone, they can use this to access all of your online accounts. Activate the “Find My Device” feature on your digital devices immediately. This feature also allows you to remotely lock or wipe your devices if they’re stolen. Assign a trusted backup number to your device. This allows you to quickly recover your accounts if your phone gets hacked. 📚 Related: Stolen Phone? Don’t Panic! Follow These 11 Steps → 4. Data breaches that expose your passwords and sensitive data Data breaches take place when hackers break into services that you use and steal your stored information. This could include your name and email address as well as passwords, credit card numbers, and even your Social Security number (SSN). 2023 was the worst year of all time for data breaches — with over 3,200 reported breaches and 350 million victims [ * ]. Leaked data often ends up on the Dark Web , where it can be bought and sold by scammers who use it break into your accounts or steal your identity online . How to prevent identity theft via data breaches: Use secure and unique passwords for every site. If you reuse passwords, a single data breach could give hackers access to all of your accounts. If you’re worried about remembering multiple passwords, Aura’s online identity theft protection service comes with an easy-to-use password manager . ‍ Add two-factor authentication (2FA) on all of your accounts , and use an authenticator app instead of SMS to receive your 2FA codes. ‍ Reduce the amount of personal information you share with online services. Never enter your SSN, and don’t save credit cards with e-commerce sites. ⚡️ Get warned fast if hackers have your private data. Aura monitors the Dark Web and public records and warns you in near-real time if your sensitive information has been leaked or is being fraudulently used. Try Aura free for 14 days and see if you’re at risk! 5. Home burglary and theft of sensitive documents While cybercrime is the fastest growing crime in the United States [ * ], home theft and burglary can still put you at risk of identity theft. Your home contains sensitive documents, such as bank statements, tax returns (and other documents) and your passport or other IDs. Even worse, in the aftermath of a break-in, you might not even notice that these documents are missing. How to prevent identity theft via home break-ins: Keep sensitive documents locked away in a safe or secure office. For added protection, go paperless with your bank statements and other sensitive accounts. Use a shredder to get rid of unneeded documents that contain your personally identifiable information (PII). 📚 Related: The Best Identity Theft Protection for Seniors (2024) → 6. Hackers “snooping” over public Wi-Fi Public Wi-Fi networks — such as those at coffee shops, airports, and hotels — are notoriously easy to hack. If hackers break into a network you’re connected to, they can view all of the data that you send, including emails, passwords, and account numbers. How to prevent identity theft via public Wi-Fi hacking: Use a virtual private network (VPN) to hide your data from hackers. Aura’s military-grade VPN encrypts your data, so that even if hackers break into your network, they can’t see or steal your sensitive information. Use your mobile phone’s hotspot when out in public. If you must use a public Wi-Fi network, don’t ever submit sensitive information such as your passwords, account information, or SSN. 📚 Related: How To Tell If Your Wi-Fi is Hacked → 7. Scammers buying your information on the Dark Web The Dark Web comprises a vast network of websites and forums that aren’t accessible through standard web browsers, and provide additional anonymity to users. Cybercriminals use the Dark Web to sell and share information that has been stolen in data breaches. For example, leaked credit card details or bank account logins go for an average of $60 or less on the Dark Web [ * ]. How to prevent identity theft via Dark Web data leaks: Run a Dark Web scan to see what information of yours has already been leaked. Update any leaked passwords , and enable 2FA on all of your accounts. Consider signing up for an identity theft protection service with Dark Web monitoring. Aura’s all-in-one digital security solution constantly scans the Dark Web and other sites for your passwords and sensitive information. You’ll be alerted in near real-time if your data has been exposed. 📚 Related: What Is Dark Web Monitoring? (Get a Free Dark Web Scan) → 8. Malware attacks (ransomware, spyware, and other viruses) Cybercriminals will try to infect your devices with malware and then spy on you, lock your devices until you pay them a ransom, or steal your sensitive data. For example, you might get a fake text message claiming that your bank account was hacked. But if you click on the link in the text message, it automatically downloads malware onto your device that gives the scammer full access to your documents and passwords. How to prevent identity theft via malware: Install antivirus software and schedule regular scans of your devices. Aura’s antivirus will identify and isolate malware before it can do damage to your device. Keep your apps and operating systems updated. Hackers often use security vulnerabilities in outdated software to launch their attacks. Whenever possible, enable “auto updates” to make sure your devices are as protected as possible. Never click on links in suspicious emails or text messages — especially on a work device. If you’re at all in doubt, contact your IT or security department. 🛡 Don’t let hackers into your devices or home network. Every Aura plan comes with AI-powered intelligent safety tools — VPN, antivirus, password manager, and more — to protect your digital privacy and data. Try Aura’s online and device security features today. 9. Family identity theft that targets children and seniors Identity thieves often target children and seniors with their scams. Children are attractive targets due to their clean credit histories, while seniors rarely monitor their credit and may be less likely to recognize scammers. In some cases, the identity thief could even be a family member . How to prevent family identity theft: Keep your child’s SSN and other sensitive documents safe and confidential. Don’t include them on forms, as it’s not always a requirement. Remember, the less personal data floating around, the lower the chance that a scammer can find it on the Dark Web. Educate your elder family members about online scams and phishing attacks. Here’s a list of some of the most common senior citizen scams that they should be aware of. Consider signing up for a family identity theft protection plan. Aura’s family plan includes monitoring and identity theft protection for up to five adults and children who live in the same household. 📚 Related: Internet Safety Tips For Kids & Teens (Parents Need To Know) → 10. Impostor scams in which scammers pretend to be company or government representatives Impersonation ID theft happens when a scammer pretends to be a representative from a company that you use or from a government agency like the IRS. These scammers will reach out via phone calls, emails, texts, or even in person, and try to trick you into either giving up sensitive information or sending them money. How to prevent identity theft via imposter scams: Verify the identity of anyone who reaches out to you via an unsolicited message, call, or visit. Government agencies have strict rules about when and how they can interact with you. If someone calls or visits you claiming to be from a company or agency , ask for their information and then hang up or close the door. Then, call the company directly using the phone number on their website and verify the information. Beware of anyone claiming to be a “tech support specialist” on social media or over email. This is a common scam that fraudsters use to either gain access to your devices or get you to send them money. 📚 Related: The 7 Latest Geek Squad Scams (and How To Avoid Them) → 11. Synthetic ID theft Synthetic ID theft occurs when criminals create a “new” identity by combining your SSN and other stolen data with someone else’s (or even made up) information. This “Frankenstein” identity can then be used to open new bank accounts, take out credit from lenders, or run other scams — all with your name or SSN attached to it. How to prevent synthetic identity theft: Monitor your SSN for signs of fraud. Aura can alert you if someone is using your SSN to apply for credit or open accounts. Educate your parents or grandparents about digital security. Elders are often targets of synthetic identity fraud and should take extra precautions such as installing antivirus and using 2FA on their devices. 📚 Related: What To Do After a Data Breach: 2024 Data Breach Recovery Plan → 12. Hackers taking advantage of weak data protection In 2024, the average American household has 17 connected devices [ * ], giving cybercriminals multiple access points to your personal data. If you don’t use a robust digital security solution, they can easily hack into your accounts or even take over your computer. How to prevent identity theft via weak data protection: Keep all of your connected devices up to date , and protect them using unique and strong passwords. Keep track of all your passwords by using a password manager. Consider an all-in-one digital security solution that includes device and network protection, credit monitoring, parental controls, and Dark Web monitoring. 🥇 Get award-winning identity theft protection – for free. Aura’s acclaimed digital security tools protect you against hackers, scammers, identity thieves, and cybercriminals. Try Aura free for 14 days . 13. Malicious websites that steal your login credentials Not all websites are secure. Scammers will often create fake websites that look like ones you’re familiar with — such as your bank or Netflix login. If you enter your login credentials on these fake websites, they go straight to the fraudster. How to prevent identity theft via malicious websites: Check that any website you’re visiting uses a secure “HTTPS” connection (not “HTTP”). Look for a padlock symbol by the URL, and click on it to see who the site’s security certificate is assigned to. If it’s not the same as the company name, it could be a scam. ‍ Be on the lookout for “lookalike” domain names. For example, scammers will use “ Walmrat.com ” instead of “ Walmart.com ” and hope that you won’t notice. ‍ Use Safe Browsing tools to warn you of fake websites. Aura's Smart Network can warn you of potential phishing links and sites before you enter your passwords, credit card, or bank account number. 📚 Related: What Is Criminal Identity Theft? Should You Be Worried? → 14. Credit card “skimming” and “shimming” devices Fraudsters install “skimming” and “shimming” devices on vulnerable ATMs and card readers to steal your credit card account information. Scammers can then use your credit card information to make fraudulent purchases online or create “cloned” versions of your card. How to prevent identity theft via credit card fraud: Be cautious whenever you use a card reader that’s in public (such as at gas stations). Sign up for a credit monitoring service that will warn you of suspicious activity. Aura constantly monitors your credit card, bank, and investment accounts for signs of fraud. You’ll get alerted in near real-time if anyone is trying to use your financial information without your permission. 📚 Related: What Is Credit Monitoring and Do You Need It? → 15. “Shoulder surfing” of your sensitive information in public With shoulder surfing , criminals spy over your shoulder when you use digital devices in public. Their goal is to steal your personal information. Usually, fraudsters stand at a safe distance to avoid detection. However, they can interpret finger movements as you type on a keypad. They may also use binoculars, miniature cameras, or hidden cameras to eavesdrop on you. How to prevent identity theft via shoulder surfing: Physically block out scammers when entering your PIN or passwords in public. Make sure no one has a direct line of sight to the information you’re entering or to your fingers on the PIN pad. Whenever possible, find a private place to go when entering sensitive information. Add a privacy screen to your phone and laptop so that no one can see what you’re typing. Never input sensitive information into a public or shared device. This includes devices at tech stores (like the Apple store). 📚 Related: How To Avoid Refund & Recovery Scams — Don't Get Scammed Twice → 16. Dumpster diving and mail theft Your garbage and mail can contain sensitive details that you don’t even realize are there. Credit card statements or offers and basic bills can include enough data to steal your identity. Criminals will often steal or go through your mail looking for these critical documents. How to prevent identity theft via dumpster diving: Shred all sensitive bills, receipts, and documents before throwing them away. This includes sales and ATM receipts, pre-approved credit cards, insurance offers, and utility bills. Go paperless as much as possible to reduce the amount of mail and garbage that may include your sensitive information. 📚 Related: How To Repair Your Credit After Identity Theft → 17. Address manipulation fraud (i.e., change-of-address scams) If identity thieves have your personal information, they can submit a change-of-address request with the United States Postal Service (USPS) and divert your mail to a different address. For example, they could change your address to one that they control and then request a replacement credit or debit card from your bank. How to prevent identity theft via change-of-address scams: Go paperless with your banking and other sensitive information. It’s much safer to have account statements sent to your email, rather than your physical mailbox. ‍ Try to pick up your mail daily or use a secure mailbox. You can also sign up for USPS Informed Delivery to receive a digital preview of items delivered to you. 💪 Don’t get stuck dealing with identity theft alone. Every Aura plan includes 24/7 support and $1,000,000 identity theft insurance to cover lost wages, phone bills, and other expenses due to identity theft. Try Aura free for 14 days and see if it’s right for you. Do You Think Your Identity Has Been Stolen? Do This Contact your identity theft insurance provider. If you have identity theft insurance, your insurer should be your first call. Aura’s team of 24/7 U.S.-based White Glove Fraud Resolution specialists will walk you through the steps of recovering from fraud and identity theft. Plus, if the worst should happen, every adult member on an Aura plan is covered by a $1,000,000 insurance policy for eligible losses due to identity theft. Freeze your credit. A credit freeze stops scammers from accessing your credit file and opening new accounts. To freeze your credit, contact each of the three major credit bureaus — Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion. Notify your bank, credit card companies, and any place where you know fraud occurred. Ask to talk to your financial institution’s fraud department and tell them what happened. They’ll cancel your compromised accounts and cards and issue you new ones. File an official report with the FTC. An identity theft report with the FTC is essential to repairing the damage of identity theft. Go to IdentityTheft.gov or call the FTC at 1-877-438-4338. Contact your local law enforcement (optional). If you have any information that could lead to an arrest, you should contact your local police department and file a police report for identity theft. Notify other impacted agencies (DMV, IRS, health insurer, etc.) If you’ve lost your ID or had an online account compromised, contact those agencies and tell them what happened. For the SSA, call 1-800-269-0271. For the IRS, call 1-800-908-4490. For a stolen driver’s license , contact your local DMV office. Regain control of any compromised accounts, and force unfamiliar sessions to log out. Request new passwords and set up recovery email addresses wherever possible. Scan the Dark Web for your information, and update passwords. Use Aura’s free Dark Web scanner to see what information hackers have access to. Update any compromised accounts as soon as possible. Use antivirus software to remove malware from your devices. Do a full scan to find any lingering malware that could lead to future fraud. Replace stolen or lost IDs. If your passport was lost or stolen, you’ll need to contact the State Department or call 1-877-487-2778. Also get a replacement Social Security card if applicable. Dispute fraudulent transactions and repair your credit. Ask the credit reporting agencies to block information from your file resulting from identity theft. Blocking damaging information ensures that it doesn’t stay on your credit report. 📚 Related: Is Aura Worth It? Here's How To Know → The Bottom Line: Prevent Identity Theft and Protect Your Entire Family The damage from identity theft can be staggering. Even worse, it’s rarely a one-time ordeal. The latest data shows that almost 50% of all people who have their identities stolen are repeat victims [ * ]. To keep yourself and your entire family safe from identity theft, you need to be proactive. Here are a few ways you can make yourself a less-attractive target to identity thieves and cybercriminals: Regularly review your credit report and bank statements. Request a free credit report at annualcreditreport.com and look for unfamiliar accounts or transactions. Keep your SSN and other sensitive information safe. Don’t share your SSN unless it’s absolutely necessary . Protect your online accounts with 2FA and a password manager. Use an authenticator app like Authy or Google Authenticator to be extra safe. Install antivirus software and a VPN to shut out hackers. Make sure you keep your software and operating systems up to date as well. Avoid public Wi-Fi and keep your devices safe in public. Don’t input any sensitive information over unsecured networks. Sign up for identity theft protection with credit monitoring. For added protection with minimal effort, let a trusted company like Aura do the work for you. Aura constantly monitors your sensitive information, financial accounts, devices, and home network for signs of fraud. If anyone is trying to use your personal information for illicit reasons, Aura will notify you in near real-time and help you shut down the scammers. Keep your identity and finances secure. Try Aura free for 14 days → Editorial note: Our articles provide educational information for you to increase awareness about digital safety. Aura’s services may not provide the exact features we write about, nor may cover or protect against every type of crime, fraud, or threat discussed in our articles. Please review our Terms during enrollment or setup for more information. Remember that no one can prevent all identity theft or cybercrime. Is this article helpful so far? Yes No Skip Need an action plan? No items found. Is your child ready for a cell phone? Take this quiz to find out. Start Quiz What do hackers know about you? Run a scan and find out now. Scan By entering your email and clicking "Scan", you agree to our Terms and acknowledge our Privacy Policy . Award-winning identity theft protection with AI-powered digital security tools, 24/7 White Glove support, and more. Try Aura for free . Related Articles Identity Theft 14 Dangers of Identity Theft That Can Leave You Reeling From financial devastation to emotional pain, the dangers of identity theft are serious. Don't let identity theft cripple your life. Read More October 27, 2023 Fraud 45+ Fraud Prevention Tips to Keep You Safe In 2024 How many of these fraud prevention tips are you aware of? Start 2024 off right by learning how to safeguard your data, devices, and family today. Read More December 4, 2023 Try Aura—14 Days Free Start your free trial today** Start Free Trial Enjoying the Article? 14 days FREE of All-In-One Protection Remove personal data from data brokers Secure your passwords from breaches Protect from identity theft, fraud, and online threats FREE for 14 days 4.7 as of March 2024 Don’t like reading? Act! 14 days FREE of All-In-One Protection Remove personal data from data brokers Secure your passwords from breaches Protect from identity theft, fraud, and online threats FREE for 14 days 4.7 as of March 2024

---

11 Ways Identity Theft Happens | ID Watchdog Consumer Compare Products ID Watchdog Select ID Watchdog Premium About ID Watchdog Control & Manage Monitor & Detect Support & Restore Education Support Account Login Consumer Login Employer Login Questions? Call 1-800-970-5182 11 Ways Identity Theft Can Happen Identity theft is the act of stealing a victim’s Personal Identifying Information (PII), which could include name, address, Social Security number, or other identifying numbers such as medical insurance or credit card accounts. Identity thieves can steal personal and financial information using a variety of electronic and low-tech methods. Learn 11 of the most common ways of identity theft can happen. 1. Phishing Scammers often use phishing emails to trick victims into providing personal or financial information. Phishing emails can be deceiving in that they may appear to come from a known or trusted company , such as a bank or an online retailer, and use various tactics to get the victim to click a link or open an attachment. 2. Smishing Scammers may also target victims via text message —a crime called smishing. Similar to phishing attacks, criminals may impersonate trusted organizations or even friends to trick victims into divulging information. Smishing may be increasing as more people trust text messages over phone calls and emails. 3. Vishing Fraudsters can also use phone calls, also known as voice phishing or vishing , to target potential victims. Phone scammers sometimes use promises, like the offer of a prize, or threats, such as the risk of not getting a tax refund, to prompt victims into giving up personal information. Scammers will also use spoofing to send falsified information to a caller ID. A spoofed call looks like it’s coming from a local number or a trusted organization when it could be originating anywhere in the world. 4. Fake Websites Fake websites often look like legitimate and trustworthy sites to make people more apt to provide their personal information. Some online shopping scams use a bogus website or mobile app that mimics a trusted retailer, including a familiar logo and similar URL. Purchases made on these fraudulent sites will likely never arrive, or worse, scammers may seed the website with malware that infects the victim’s device and harvests personal or financial information. 5. Impersonation Scams or Confidence Fraud Confidence fraud occurs when a criminal deceives a victim into believing they have a trusted relationship—as a family member, friend, or romantic interest—to convince the victim to send money, provide information, make purchases, or even launder money. One way thieves steal taxpayer information is through IRS impersonation scams. Scammers call their victims claiming to work for the IRS or send fraudulent emails that look like official communications . 6. Data Breaches A data breach is the intentional or unintentional release or theft of information, whether it is due to a cyberattack or simply the improper disposal of physical documents. If an individual is notified of a breach, their financial or personal information may have been exposed. The theft of usernames and passwords from data breaches may also fuel credential stuffing attacks in which criminals use stolen username and password combinations to hack into other accounts. 7. Skimming Skimming occurs when a criminal steals information as the debit or credit card is swiped . Scammers may tamper with the electronic card reader so that it captures card data, place a recording device at an ATM, or recruit a crooked salesperson to steal customers’ card data. 8. Public Wi-Fi and USB Charging Stations Many public Wi-Fi networks are vulnerable to threats from hackers , making it possible for thieves to eavesdrop on users’ private information. Scammers may also employ a USB charging scam , called juice jacking, in which malware infects the user’s device when connected to an airport USB charging station or hotel USB port. 9. Purchase of Information on the Dark Web The dark web, or dark net , is a part of the internet that serves as a highly profitable marketplace where criminals can purchase stolen personal information. Private photos, medical records, and financial information have all reportedly been stolen and shared on the dark web. Security researches have reported a concerning trend that cybercriminals have begun targeting children—even infants—and advertising their stolen information for sale on the dark web. 10. Theft by a Family Member or Friend An identity could be stolen by a family member or friend , such as a parent who uses a child's information to get a credit card or loan, or someone who uses their spouse’s information without permission to open an account. According to one report, 51 percent of new account fraud victims stated that they personally knew the individual who committed the fraud. 11. Theft of a Wallet, Mail, or Even Trash Personal and financial information can also be stolen using low-tech methods, such as a criminal going through the victim’s mail or even their trash. Regardless of how a criminal obtains the victim’s PII, once thieves have the information, they may use it to commit fraud. This could include draining bank accounts and racking up credit card charges, getting medical treatment using the victim’s health insurance, stealing their tax refund, or selling the information to other criminals. In some extreme cases, a thief might even give the victim’s name during an arrest and prompt a false criminal record. Identity theft victims may be unaware of the crimes until there is already substantial damage to their financial assets, credit, and reputation. Better Protect Yourself and Your Loved Ones from Identity Theft Fortunately, there are steps you can take to better protect yourself and your family from identity theft and identity fraud. Download the white paper Your Guide to Identity Theft to learn more about the various types of identity theft, common warning signs, and steps individuals can take to better protect themselves. How to Report an Incident According to the FTC, if you or a loved one believe you have been the victim of identity theft, report it immediately at IdentityTheft.gov , the federal government’s resource for identity theft victims. Hidden Home About Employee Benefits Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions ® 2024 ID Watchdog. Other product and company names are property of their respective owners. x

---

Categories Credit Report & Scores Back View All Credit Report & Scores Score Advice Report Advice Back View All Report Advice Bankruptcy Charge Off Closed Accounts Collections Cosigning Credit Limit Credit Repair Denied Credit Dispute Foreclosure Inquiry Late Payment Negative Information Report Details Repossession Improve Credit Life Stages Back Establishing Credit Marriage Divorce Kids Employment Death of a Relative Students Fraud & Identity Theft Back View All Fraud & Identity Theft Fraud Alert Security Freeze Prevention Data Breach Cybersecurity Credit Cards Back View All Credit Cards Best Credit Cards Rewards Credit Cards Cash Back Credit Cards Balance Transfers Travel Credit Cards Secured Credit Cards Student Credit Cards Credit Card Basics APR Loans Back View All Loans Loan Basics Auto Loans Student Loans Personal Loans Insurance Back View All Insurance Auto Insurance Home Insurance Life Insurance Health Insurance Insurance Reviews Finance Back View All Personal Finance Banking Back View All Banking Savings Account Checking Account Certificate of Deposit (CD) Money Market Budgeting Saving Debt Mortgage Investing Retirement Taxes Small Business Latest News & Trends Advertiser Disclosure Cybersecurity What Can Identity Thieves Do With Your Personal Info and How Can You Protect Yourself? May 21, 2023  •  6 min read By Louis DeNicola Quick Answer Identity thieves can sell your personal information and use it for various types of identity fraud, such as taking over your accounts or applying for credit in your name. Protecting your info is important, but you may also want monitoring in place that quickly alerts you if your information is leaked or someone tries to use it. In this article: How Does Identity Theft Happen? What Can Identity Thieves Do With Your PII? How to Protect Your Personally Identifiable Information What to Do if Your PII Is Compromised Identity thieves and fraudsters can use your personal information to take over your accounts, use your accounts, open new accounts, file tax returns or even get medical procedures in your name. However, there are some steps you can take to protect yourself from identity theft and tools that quickly alert you when something is amiss. How Does Identity Theft Happen? Identity theft is when someone steals personal information that they can use to imitate another person. Sometimes, people distinguish between identity theft―the act of stealing information―and identity fraud—using someone else's identity to commit a crime. But the terms are also commonly used interchangeably. There are many ways that identity theft can happen : Data breaches: A data breach could expose your personal information, which the attackers might use or sell on the dark web . Lost or stolen possessions: Thieves could steal or opportunistically pick up your wallet , phone, mail and other documents or possessions that have your personal information. Malware: If malware , or malicious software, infects one of your devices, someone might be able to take control of the device to imitate you or snoop on anything you enter or send from the device. Unsecured browsing: If you use an unsecured Wi-Fi network or enter information into an unsecured or scam website , attackers could snoop on your activity or try to install malware onto your device. Phishing: Some criminals send phishing (email), smishing (text) and vishing (voice) messages to try to lure you into sharing your personal information. They might do this directly, by asking you to "confirm" your personal information, or as the first part of a multistep attack that includes a link that will download malware onto your device or send you to an unsecured website. Card skimming: Skimming devices can be attached to card readers to steal information from your debit and credit cards and make copies of your card. Identify theft can also happen when a family member, friend or roommate steals or uses your personal information without your consent. What Is Personally Identifiable Information? Personally identifying information (PII) is information that can distinguish one person from someone else. Some PII, such as your Social Security number or biometric data , like a fingerprint or retina scan, can identify you directly. Other PII can help distinguish you, but it's only one piece of the puzzle. For example, you might share the same birthplace with many people, but it's unlikely that you share the same birthplace, name and date of birth with someone else. Common Types of Personally Identifiable Information Full name Home address Birth date Email address(es) Birthplace Phone number Social Security number (SSN) Mother's maiden name Biometric data Medical records Passport number Military credentials Vehicle identification numbers (VINs) Driver's license number Educational records or information Credit or debit card numbers Employment information Insurance information The more pieces of PII an identity thief can obtain, the more likely they'll be able to imitate you and commit different types of identity fraud. What Can Identity Thieves Do With Your PII? Identity thieves can profit off your personal information in different ways , and some criminals specialize in one type of crime or attack. Some of the ways thieves can use your PII include: Sell your PII. Rather than using your information, identity thieves might list it for sale on the dark web or social media. Take over accounts. Criminals can try to take over your accounts , including bank, credit card, phone, ecommerce and loyalty program accounts . They can then try to steal anything of value, from directly transferring funds to using your gift cards or points. They could also try to change your password, email, username, phone number or PIN to make it difficult for you to quickly or respond to the compromise. Use your account without your permission. Even if they don't take over your account, the fraudster might be able to convince your card issuer to add them as an authorized user or your bank to mail them a checkbook. They can then use the card or checks to commit fraud. Apply for new accounts. Someone could apply for a new credit card, bank account or loan in your name. They might steal the new credit card out of your mailbox, or have the card or account information mailed to an address they control. Get medical procedures. Medical identity theft can happen if someone steals or buys your identity and medical PII. The person might be able to use your health insurance to get medications or procedures, which can be dangerous if these fraudulent activities are added to your medical records. File a tax return. Tax fraud is when someone uses your PII to file a fraudulent tax return. They might make up numbers or information to guarantee they get a large refund. Apply for government benefits. Criminals also might be able to use your information to apply for government benefits, such as unemployment . Although these are common ways that identity thieves and fraudsters use PII, it's not an exhaustive list—and some less common attacks can be just as scary. For example, someone might take over your social media accounts and blackmail you by threatening to share personal or embarrassing information or pictures with your contacts. And there are cases of identity thieves fraudulently transferring home titles and then taking out mortgages against the victim's home. It's also important to be cautious whenever something feels amiss or too good to be true because fraudsters continually create new scams and schemes . How to Protect Your Personally Identifiable Information Protecting your PII can be ongoing and difficult, but there are several steps you can take to help you stay safe. Protecting Your PII Online Create unique and strong passwords for all your accounts, especially those with PII. A password manager can make this easier. Enable multifactor authentication (MFA) to help keep your account secure even if some of your PII is compromised. Install the latest updates for your computer and mobile devices. Don't log in to your accounts while using public Wi-Fi networks or someone else's device. Learn how to spot and avoid phishing emails. Protecting Your PII Offline Never carry your Social Security card in your wallet or write your SSN on a form without double checking that it's required. Add passwords to all your devices. Try to get the mail out of your mailbox right away. Shred documents that have PII before throwing them away. Don't respond to text messages or phone calls that ask you to share PII. Even if it looks like the message is coming from a legitimate company or government agency, criminals can spoof their information to hide their identity. Request a free Identity Protection PIN from the IRS . What to Do if Your PII Is Compromised Unfortunately, even if you follow every best practice for keeping your information safe, mistakes can happen or a data breach could leak your PII. However, there are a few things you can do to help protect yourself and quickly detect signs of identity fraud : Regularly check your account statements. Look for unexpected statements, bills or application rejection letters in the mail. Add transaction or balance notifications to your credit card and bank accounts. Sign up for free credit monitoring . Freeze your credit or place a fraud alert. You have the right to add a security freeze or fraud alert to your credit reports. If you suspect or know someone used your identity, the next steps will depend on the specific situation. In general, you'll want to notify the Federal Trade Commission using IdentityTheft.org , possibly your local police department and the organization where the fraudsters used your identity. See if Your PII Is Already on the Dark Web Data breaches have compromised many people's PII, and there's a good chance that your PII could wind up in a criminal's hands. You can check to see if your SSN, email or phone number are already on the dark web with a free dark web scan . You can also use Experian's personal privacy scan to see what PII people can find on the public web. And if you want to continually monitor various databases for your information, a program like Experian's Premium membership can quickly alert you if your PII is found online. Is Your Info on the Dark Web? Internet criminals buy and sell personal data on the Dark Web to commit fraud. Could they have your info? Find out with a FREE Dark Web Scan. Scan the Dark Web Resources Credit Score Credit Score FAQs What Is a Good Credit Score? What Affects Your Credit Scores? What Are the Different Credit Score Ranges? Credit Report Credit Report Basics Credit Repair: How to “Fix” Your Credit Yourself Understanding Your Experian Credit Report How to Dispute Credit Report Information Fraud & Identity Theft Identity Theft Victim Assistance What Is Identity Theft? What Is Credit Card Fraud? How to Freeze Your Credit at All 3 Credit Bureaus Improve Credit How to Improve Your Credit Score What Is a Credit Utilization Rate? How to Build Credit: A Comprehensive Guide Personal Finance Is a Debt Consolidation Loan Right For You? Is a Debt Management Plan Right for You? How to Pay Off Credit Card Debt How to Get Out of Debt Calculators APR Calculator Personal Loan Calculator Credit Card Payoff Calculator Mortgage Calculator Car Payment Calculator Savings Calculator Latest Research Average Personal Loan Balance Grows 6.3% in 2023 Average Auto Lease Payment Climbs to $638, Slightly Less Than Loan Cost Car Buyers and Credit: What Auto Financing Means for Credit Scores View All Research Latest Reviews What Happens if You Max Out a Credit Card? Do Auto Insurance Companies Consider Your Credit Score? 10 Savings Challenges to Try in 2025 When Is FAFSA Due in 2025? How Often Should I Check My Credit Score? Where to Order Checks: Best Places

---

Privacy guides How do scammers get your personal information? Harry Bone Share this page (new window) (new window) (new window) (new window) Published on May 19, 2023 Fraudsters have many ways to steal your identity and money, but there are simple steps you can take to protect yourself. Given how much valuable personal data we store online, scammers have a strong incentive to try to steal it. With just a few personal details, they can steal your identity, clean out your bank account, run up credit card bills, or commit crimes in your name. In 2022, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) received over 1.1 million reports of identity theft (new window) in the US. And for those affected, the impact can be devastating. Over 30% of identity theft victims last year said they lost more than $10,000, according to the Identity Theft Resource Center (new window) . Most also reported suffering negative feelings and emotions or even physical problems as a result. But there are ways to protect yourself. We explain how scammers can steal your identity and what you can do to stop them. How fraudsters steal your identity How to spot phishing and social engineering What to do if you suspect phishing 10 ways to prevent identity theft 1. Don’t respond to spam! 2. Get secure email 3. Hide your email with aliases 4. Use strong passwords and 2FA 5. Install good anti-virus software 6. Keep your devices updated 7. Back up your data 8. Use a trustworthy VPN 9. Don’t overshare personal data 10. Protect your physical documents Stay secure with Proton How fraudsters steal your identity Fraudsters steal personally identifiable information , like your name and address, credit card or bank account numbers, or Social Security numbers. They can then buy things with your credit card, access your bank account, steal your tax refund, and more, while you pick up the tab. Or they may use your identity to commit other crimes, pretending to be you. Here’s how thieves can get your personal details to steal your identity: Phishing and social engineering Phishing is an online scam in which attackers send you fake emails or text messages to trick you into revealing sensitive information or downloading malware on your device. Or they may call you asking for personal details or use other social engineering (new window) tricks to defraud you. See how to spot phishing below. Hacking and data breaches Malicious hackers can target organizations that store large amounts of personal data, like banks, email providers, or online retailers. Once your personal details are leaked in a data breach , they can be sold on the dark web. Malware Malware (new window) , such as spyware or Trojans, can be downloaded onto your device by phishing emails, software installations, or other means. Fraudsters may use it to steal personal details like login credentials or even take control of your device. Social media Scammers can learn a lot about you just from what you post online, so be careful what you share. They can also set up fake social media profiles and ask to connect to gain access to your private posts. Skimming Criminals can install skimming devices on ATMs, fuel pumps, or other payment terminals to capture your credit card details. When you insert and use your card, they steal your card number and PIN. Your trash If you discard or recycle sensitive documents like bank statements or utility bills without shredding them, beware. Fraudsters can raid your trash to salvage your personal data. Physical document theft Thieves can also steal personal data from documents you leave lying around, so keep your documents secure. Similarly, they can target your mailbox outside your home, so keep it locked. Government records If you live in the US, personal data like criminal records, property owner information, and other public records are freely available. Anyone can legally gather this information on you and sell it to others, including scammers. From you You may give away reams of personal data if you participate in surveys and competitions or fill out product warranty cards on paper or online. All this data can be sold to others legally or as part of a scam. How to spot phishing and social engineering Phishing is one of the most common ways fraudsters attack online. In 2022, the FBI received around 800,000 complaints of internet crime in the US, and over 300,000 were related to phishing (new window) . That’s why it’s essential to learn how to spot phishing attempts. Typically, phishing messages contain urgent requests, threats, or promises of prizes, asking you to take immediate action. Scammers may: Say they’ve noticed “suspicious” login attempts on one of your online accounts and ask you to “confirm” your login details Claim you need to “verify” your personal or financial details, like your credit card number, or your account will be closed Say you’ve been selected for a “special offer, a “lottery win”, or you’re due an unexpected “tax refund” and then request your bank account details to “pay” you Send you a connection request on a social media network or dating site, but you don’t know the person and aren’t registered with that site Besides this dubious content, phishing emails may contain other fraudulent signs, such as fake sender addresses, generic greetings, or suspicious links or attachments. Learn how to spot a phishing email . What to do if you suspect phishing While the content and format of many phishing emails give them away as “phishy”, some appear to be from genuine senders, so beware! We recommend taking the following steps when you receive any email with a button, link, attachment, or request for personal details, especially if it appears urgent : If you’re unsure about a message that appears to be from your bank, for example, contact the bank directly or log in to your account to check. Only don’t use the contact details or login links in the message. 10 ways to protect yourself against identity theft Being aware of phishing is just one way to protect yourself. Here’s how to ensure you don’t become an identity theft statistic: 1. Don’t respond to spam! Don’t open or respond to spam or suspicious (phishy!) emails. Above all, don’t click on links or attachments or reply to requests for personal details. Delete. 2. Get secure email Get end-to-end encrypted email, like Proton Mail, with smart spam filtering and PhishGuard advanced phishing protection. PhishGuard sorts and flags suspicious emails in your inbox, alerting you to phishing attempts. 3. Hide your email with aliases Use email aliases to keep your personal email address private. A good email aliasing service, like SimpleLogin by Proton (new window) , allows you to create a unique email address for different services. That way, you can easily trace the source of spam or phishing emails and revoke the alias if it’s being abused. 4. Use strong passwords and 2FA Create strong passwords and get a good, open-source password manager, like Proton Pass , to secure your accounts. And switch on two-factor authentication (2FA) wherever you can. With 2FA, if your login credentials are ever leaked, fraudsters won’t be able to access your accounts. 5. Install good anti-virus software Install reputable antivirus software, which can scan your computer or phone for malware used to steal your data. Antivirus software can also give you real-time protection, monitoring emails, attachments, and web content to flag potential phishing emails or software vulnerabilities. 6. Keep your devices updated Make sure your computer and phone operating systems and other apps are updated to the latest versions with security patches. This will protect you against malware that exploits software vulnerabilities. 7. Back up your data Make regular backups of your data, including offline backups using an encrypted external drive . While this won’t prevent identity theft, it will help you restore your data from a clean backup if your device is ever infected with ransomware or spyware (new window) . 8. Use a trustworthy VPN Get a trusted virtual private network (VPN) (new window) like Proton VPN (new window) . A VPN encrypts your internet traffic, protecting any sensitive information you share over insecure networks like public WiFi. VPNs also hide your IP address and location, making it more difficult for cybercriminals to trace you online. 9. Don’t overshare personal data Be careful what you post on social media. Don’t reveal sensitive details such as your date of birth and home address. And avoid revealing reams of personal data in surveys, competitions, product warranty cards, or other forms. 10. Protect your physical documents If your mailbox is outside your home, lock it. That will prevent criminals from stealing your mail containing sensitive information. Stay secure with Proton Identity thieves have many ways to steal your personal data, but the steps above should keep them at bay. But no matter how careful we are, we all make mistakes. Even seasoned IT professionals can fall for a phishing email or find their data exposed in a data breach. At Proton, our mission is to give everyone privacy and security online. We’ve designed Proton Mail to give you the best chance against phishing and identity theft, including: End-to-end and zero-access encryption to protect your information in a data breach PhishGuard advanced phishing protection to alert you to potential phishing emails Smart spam detection and custom filters to automatically filter spam Link confirmation to let you check the URL in links before you open them 2FA with authenticator apps and security keys to secure your account Address verification to confirm that senders in end-to-end encrypted emails are genuine Aliases to hide your personal address from spammers and scammers Our Official badge to make it easy for you to identify which emails came from Proton All Proton plans include end-to-end encrypted Proton Mail, Proton Calendar , Proton Drive , and Proton VPN (new window) to secure your internet connection wherever you are. So get Proton Mail free, and stay secure! Secure your emails, protect your privacy Get Proton Mail free Share this page (new window) (new window) (new window) (new window) Harry Bone A long-standing privacy advocate, Harry worked as a translator and writer in a range of industries, including a stint in Moscow monitoring the Russian media for the BBC. He joined Proton to promote privacy, security, and freedom for everyone online. Related articles Dec 16, 2024 Proton news Join the 2024 Lifetime account fundraiser for online freedom Learn how to join our 2024 Lifetime Account Charity Fundraiser, your chance to
win our most exclusive plan and fight for a better internet. Dec 13, 2024 For business What is zero trust and how can it protect your business? Cybersecurity for businesses is harder than ever: find out how zero trust
security can prevent data breaches within your business. Dec 13, 2024 Privacy guides How to protect your inbox from an email extractor Learn how an email extractor works, why your email address is valuable, how to
protect your inbox, and what to do if your email address is exposed. Dec 9, 2024 Privacy guides How to whitelist an email address and keep important messages in your inbox Find out what email whitelisting is, why it’s useful, how to whitelist email
addresses on different platforms, and how Proton Mail can help. Dec 6, 2024 For business The top 3 cybersecurity threats business face in 2025 Thousands of businesses of all sizes were impacted by cybercrime in 2024. Here
are the top cybersecurity threats we expect companies to face in 2025—and how
Proton Pass can protect your business. Dec 5, 2024 Privacy guides How many gigabytes are in a terabyte? Storage capacity explained Learn how many GB are in a TB and discover the best way to securely store and
share your files — no matter their size.

---

Top 5 Ways Fraudsters Commit Identity Theft in 2024 [Updated] Every year, numerous businesses worldwide get hit with billions of dollars in losses due to identity fraud. They even don’t realize how they become the victim of identity theft. In this blog post, we’ll make you familiar with common ways fraudsters commit identity theft and solutions to prevent it. Gabija Stankevičiūtė September 28, 2020 Blog Identity Verification Technology has transformed the way businesses operate. It plays a significant role in helping them understand customers’ needs, target potential customers, and improve operations. Unfortunately, technology has also brought many threats to businesses. One of the common ones is identity theft. Nowadays, cybercriminals are using technology to perform identity theft. In fact, identity theft has turned into the fastest-growing crime, causing substantial financial loss to businesses across the globe. That explains why the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) alone received a staggering 2.1 million fraud reports in one year’s time. So, tag along and allow this post to guide you through the common types of identity theft and solutions to stop them. What is Identity Theft? Identity theft is a deceptive exploitation of someone else’s personal information and name for personal benefit. It happens when a fraudster steals your identity and gains access to your personally identifiable information (PII) to commit fraud. The type of sensitive information stolen by fraudsters to commit fraud may include the date of birth, address, driver’s license , bank account details, passwords , social security number (SSN), etc. 📝 Key Identity Theft Statistics for 2024 According to the FBI, over 100,000 identity theft and personal data breaches occur every year. Almost one-third of Americans have been a victim of identity theft. Identity theft victims in the US are most commonly aged between 30-39 years old . Around 40% of consumers worldwide are targeted by ID theft at least once. Javelin Research concluded that fraudsters are quick in their efforts to take over accounts. One report revealed that 40% of account takeovers happen within 24 hours of a fraudster accessing a victim’s account. Common Tactics Criminals Use for Identity Theft Identity theft can affect people badly. Financial setbacks, decreased credit scores, and anxiety about future financial security are just the beginning. However, staying informed about the risks of identity theft helps you safeguard yourself and your family, allowing you to enjoy modern technology’s benefits fully. Identity theft has become increasingly sophisticated, with criminals using various complex methods to steal personal information. Some common ways to commit identity theft include: Completing change-of-address forms to redirect mail, which often contains personal and financial information. Using electronic devices attached to ATMs to “skim” information stored on credit or debit cards’ magnetic strips. Employing phishing tactics , such as fake emails, text messages, and websites, designed to deceive individuals into divulging sensitive information. Purchasing personal data from insiders, such as company employees, with access to financial information. Stealing electronic records through data breaches or buying credentials on the dark web . In the following section, we’ll explore the different types of identity theft in more detail. 1. Phishing Phishing is a method where scammers send deceptive emails that appear genuine, such as an email from your bank requesting you to confirm your account details. Criminals have also adopted a technique called SMiShing , which involves sending fraudulent text messages. SMiShing is similar to phishing, where you might receive a deceptive text message asking you to verify a purchase or account information. As per ConsumerAffairs , phishing via voicemails, texts, and emails is one of the most common ways cybercriminals commit identity-related fraud. As soon as a recipient clicks on a malicious link, the malware starts getting installed in the background, resulting in the system freezing and revealing sensitive information. In the above example, the fraudster is pretending to be a representative of the National Security Department. The email asks the recipient to click on the link to perform a verification. As soon as the recipient clicks on the link, a malicious script will activate in the background and give the fraudster access to crucial information. Check out the following example: 2. Data Breaches A data breach happens when a cybercriminal infiltrates a data source and extracts sensitive information. Cybercriminals find a way to access a company’s computer network to steal personally identifiable information. When criminals gain unauthorized access to databases or systems containing personal data, they can obtain a wealth of information that can be used to assume someone’s identity. For example, let’s say a major retailer’s customer database is breached, and the hackers access customer names, addresses, social security numbers, and credit card details. Armed with this information, hackers can engage in various fraudulent activities, such as: Opening credit card accounts Making unauthorized purchases Applying for loans using stolen identities. According to Statista , 25,000 data breach cases were reported in the Netherlands between May 2018 and January 2020. Check out the number of breaches in other European countries during the same period. A few primary reasons for data breaches include: Weak credentials Software or application vulnerabilities Physical attacks User errors like improper configuration Third-party vulnerabilities 3. Vishing Vishing , short for “ voice phishing ,” is a form of cybercrime that involves fraudulent attempts to gather personal or sensitive information from individuals over the phone. In vishing attacks, scammers impersonate legitimate organizations, such as banks, government agencies, or service providers, and use social engineering techniques to deceive victims. The aim is to get people to disclose their personal information. The attackers use voice calls to create a sense of urgency or importance, tricking individuals into revealing confidential information like credit card numbers, passwords, social security numbers, or account details. They may employ various tactics, such as impersonating a trusted authority figure, threatening consequences for non-compliance, or offering enticing rewards to manipulate victims into disclosing their personal information. 4. Social Media Scams Nowadays, businesses are leveraging social media to promote their services or products. Do you know the information you list on social sites can expose you to fraud? A survey conducted on 261 companies in the UK concluded that fraudsters steal crucial business information from social media sites. Social media platforms often contain a wealth of personal information about individuals, such as: Full names Birthdates Location data Relationships Employment details Imposters can exploit this information by impersonating the victim and using it to access their accounts or carry out fraudulent activities in their name. On top of that, impersonators can manipulate individuals on social media through social engineering tactics. They might establish a rapport with someone, gain their trust, and then convince them to reveal personal information or perform actions that compromise their identity. This could include providing login credentials and financial details or even sharing scanned copies of official documents. Related : KYC in Social Media: Less Anonymity = More Security? 5. Pharming For those who don’t know, pharming is a kind of online fraud that involves malicious code and fraudulent websites. A cyber attacker installs malicious code on a victim’s server, which automatically directs them to a bogus site without their consent, known as DNS cache poisoning . Thus they steal your personal information, such as credit card details, personal information to commit fraud. How to Report an Identity Theft Incident? If you suspect that you or someone you care about has fallen victim to identity theft, it is crucial to report it as soon as possible. The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) advises reporting the incident immediately at IdentityTheft.gov . This website serves as the official resource provided by the federal government, specifically for individuals who have experienced identity theft. By reporting the incident promptly, you can initiate the necessary steps to mitigate the damage and protect yourself from further harm. Here are the contact details: The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) online at IdentityTheft.gov or call 1-877-438-4338. The fraud department at your credit card issuers, bank, and other platforms where you own accounts. The three major credit reporting agencies. In case of identity theft, you must place fraud alerts and a credit freeze on your accounts. How Can You Prevent Identity Theft in Practice? There is a saying — prevention is better than cure . The majority of businesses don’t realize that weak credentials and application vulnerabilities are the primary causes of identity theft and other cyber attacks. If you’re a business owner, naturally, you have the responsibility to ensure that your staff adheres to cybersecurity practices. A few everyday things  you can do to prevent identity theft include: Avoid clicking on pop-ups , unknown links, and emails. Connect to secure Wi-Fi only. Use strong password protection and authentication. Enable firewall protection. Install security software to back up your files. Stick to data protection regulations like GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation). Give your staff training to prevent data breaches and other unwanted consequences. How an Automated Identity Verification Solution Helps If you’re in a business where thousands of people use your online platform daily to buy things or use a particular service, you must implement a robust identity verification solution. It will help you identify suspicious users and stop them from using your platform for money laundering, illegal purchase, and other malicious purposes. Look for an identity verification partner that combines face recognition , liveness detection , and ID verification in one solution to speed up the onboarding process without breaking the bank. If you’re operating in multiple countries, you must look for an identity verification solution provider that offers a cross-border solution. iDenfy is a well-known identity verification provider that turns a customer’s device into a 24/7 ID verification terminal and face recognition system. If you want to speed up your boarding process, mitigate fraud, and meet regulatory compliance, try our all-in-one RegTech solution . This blog post was updated on the 1st of July, 2024, to reflect the latest insights. What is Identity Theft? Common Tactics Criminals Use for Identity Theft How to Report an Identity Theft Incident? How Can You Prevent Identity Theft in Practice? How an Automated Identity Verification Solution Helps Frequently asked questions 1 How to Tell if Somebody Else is Using Your Identity? There are certain red flags that might indicate that your identity has been stolen. For example: Suspicious credit history . To make sure that you weren’t hacked, you can request a free credit report from major credit bureaus. Targeted scam calls . Don’t engage with scammers, but be attentive to details. For example, if the bad actor is calling you and they know your name, date of birth, etc., there’s a chance they are phishing for more information. Verification codes . If you didn’t initiate any action through 2FA to use the code and confirm our identity, there’s someone trying to access your account. Unfamiliar transactions . If there’s a charge that you didn’t make, immediately contact your bank. 2 What Can You Do After Identity Theft Happens? If your identity was stolen, the first thing you need to do is change all your passwords, PINs and login credentials. This includes all online accounts that were potentially breached, including your email or work-related accounts. To take matters further, always inform the police and report the crime. 3 How Long Does It Take to Recover from Identity Theft? According to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and its estimations, it can take up to six months to recover from an identity theft incident, which requires approximately 200 hours of work. This number reflects the time and effort needed to complete all the necessary steps to ensure the identity theft victim isn’t held responsible for the fraudulent debt in terms of the charges the criminal made on their behalf. 4 What is a Fraud Alert? A fraud alert is a process when creditors require you to verify your identity before opening a new account. This happens when issuing an additional card or increasing the credit limit on an existing account. If you suspect you’re a victim of identity theft, you can place a fraud alert on your credit report. 5 Does Identity Theft Ruin Your Life Entirely? Not necessarily. However, identity theft can do serious damage. For example, if a criminal receives your SSN, they can open multiple credit accounts in your name, leaving many unpaid bills behind. So, unfortunately, when criminals access personal information, they can cause harm to your career and reputation. 6 What Can Businesses Do to Prevent Identity Theft? There are standard steps that every business can take to minimize the chances of identity theft happening in their network. Here are some examples: Enable multi-factor authentication when available. Use an anti-malware and anti-virus software with automatic updates. Encrypt sensitive files and emails with strong passwords. Limit access to personal data to only those who need it. Use unique passwords for each account and consider a password manager. Back up sensitive data to a secure external source that’s not connected to your network. Verify third-party providers and conduct background checks, like Business Verification , to ensure the legitimacy of your and your partners’ operations. Gabija Stankevičiūtė Gabija’s a consistent writer for the blog and the first ever in-house copywriter at iDenfy, who joined the startup in 2021. With a background in journalism, she was always keen on technology. From employer branding posts to product updates, she covers all things related to the startup and its innovations. Read more articles Blog Regulations by Country December 16, 2024 Beneficial Ownership Information (BOI) Reporting [Guide] Access the latest news and summarized takeaways regarding FinCEN’s Beneficial Ownership (BOI) Reporting rule: which entities need to comply and what exact steps reporting companies need to take right now. Written by Gabija Stankevičiūtė Blog December 11, 2024 How to Check if a Business is in Good Standing Learn why you need to know if a business is in good standing, what happens in the case of non-compliance, and why certain risk factors, like onboarding a Politically Exposed Person (PEP), come with certain risks that can potentially harm your company. Written by Gabija Stankevičiūtė Blog December 11, 2024 Understanding KYC and MiCA The recent boom in the cryptocurrency market has raised the need for a solid regulatory framework to guarantee users’ transparency, safety, and protection; the European Union has adopted the Markets in Crypto-Assets Regulation (MiCA) to offer a meaningful legal framework for crypto-assets issued within its borders. Among the essential elements introduced by MiCA is a strict Know Your Customer (KYC) policy and procedures to reduce the risk of money laundering, fraud, and other illicit activities. Written by Andrius Juodis

---

FBI Tech Tuesday: Protecting Against Personally Identifiable Information (PII) Theft — FBI An official website of the United States government. Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Submit Search Search FBI More Most Wanted News What We Investigate How We Can Help You Submit a Tip About Contact Us Home Contact Us Field Offices Phoenix News Press Releases Facebook Icon Email Icon Youtube Icon Flickr Icon LinkedIn Icon Instagram Icon Search FBI Submit Search FBI Federal
									Bureau of Investigation FBI Tech Tuesday: Protecting Against Personally Identifiable Information (PII) Theft Phoenix About News Wanted and Missing Persons Community Outreach FBI Phoenix Brooke Brennan and Kevin Smith (623) 466-1999 Share on X X.com Share on Facebook Facebook Email Email May 24, 2022 FBI Tech Tuesday: Protecting Against Personally Identifiable Information (PII) Theft PHOENIX, AZ—Fraudsters have been trying to steal your identity and personally identifiable information—or PII—for years. PII can include your name, Social Security number, date of birth, or financial information. In 2021, Arizona had more than 1,000 victims of a personal data breach, resulting in reported losses of almost $7.5 million. Nationally, this scam claimed the third highest number of victims with 51,829 people reporting losses of $517 million in 2021. This scam has consistently shown an increase in victims and money lost over the last three years. A personal data breach is defined as a leak/spill of personal data which is released from a secure location to an untrusted environment. It may also refer to a security incident in which an individual’s sensitive, protected, or confidential data is copied, transmitted, viewed, stolen, or used by an unauthorized individual. Once a cyber-criminal obtains your PII, they can open credit card or bank accounts, apply for loans, or commit any number of crimes in your name. This theft takes many forms, from email phishing attacks to Point-of-Sale theft, to the more advanced hacking of vulnerabilities in servers where the information is hosted. Both individuals and businesses can take steps to protect their financial future. For individuals: Watch for phishing attempts—unsolicited email, text messages, and telephone calls purportedly from a legitimate company requesting personal, financial, and/or login credentials. Watch credit card, utility bills, and bank statements for unusual transactions. Enable security functions on your phone and computer—especially if you have passwords stored or apps that link to your financial institutions. Never respond to unsolicited requests for your personal information, whether online, by phone, or in person. For businesses (Employers and plan administrators responsible for managing participant accounts): Alert your workforce personnel to the latest methods criminals are utilizing to obtain Personally Identifiable Information. Continue to encourage employees to scrutinize links and attachments contained in emails. Direct employees to report any suspicious requests for personal information to your Information Technology or Information Security Department. Establish multi-factor authentication for creating new online accounts and monitor accounts for unauthorized access, modifications, and anomalous activities. If you believe you or someone you know has been victimized by an online scam or cyber fraud, the FBI asks you report it to the FBI’s Internet Crime Complaint Center at www.ic3.gov, or call your local FBI office. Most Wanted Ten Most Wanted Fugitives Terrorism Kidnappings / Missing Persons Seeking Information Bank Robbers ECAP ViCAP FBI Jobs Submit a Tip Crime Statistics History FOIPA Scams & Safety FBI Kids News Stories Videos Press Releases Speeches Testimony Podcasts and Radio Photos Español Apps How We Can Help You Law Enforcement Victims Parents and Caregivers Students Businesses Safety Resources Need an FBI Service or More Information? What We Investigate Terrorism Counterintelligence Cyber Crime Public Corruption Civil Rights Organized Crime White-Collar Crime Violent Crime WMD About Mission & Priorities Leadership & Structure Partnerships Community Outreach FAQs Contact Us Field Offices FBI Headquarters Visit the FBI Experience Overseas Offices Additional Resources Accessibility eRulemaking Freedom of Information / Privacy Act Legal Notices Legal Policies & Disclaimers Privacy Policy USA.gov White House No FEAR Act Equal Opportunity fbi federal bureau of investigation FBI.gov Contact Center Email updates Accessibility eRulemaking Freedom of Information / Privacy Act Legal Notices Legal Policies & Disclaimers Privacy Policy USA.gov White House No FEAR Act Equal Opportunity FBI.gov is an official site of the U.S. Department of Justice © Search FBI Submit Search Home Most Wanted News What We Investigate How We Investigate How We Can Help You Submit a Tip About Contact Us About News Wanted and Missing Persons Community Outreach Crime Statistics Photos Video Outreach History FOIA Scams & Safety FBI Kids FBI Jobs email Stay Connected Get FBI email alerts Subscribe No Thanks ×

---

Identity Theft 21 Warning Signs of Identity Theft: How To Avoid Fraud Share this: linkedin link twitter link facebook link February 14, 2024 10 Minute Read Ryan Toohil Chief Technology Officer In this article: How Can You Tell If Someone Is Trying to Steal Your Identity? Identity Thieves Need Your Personal Information — Here’s How They Get It 21 Warning Signs of Identity Theft: How To Spot a Scammer Do These Warning Signs of Identity Theft Sound Familiar? Do This: The Bottom Line: Secure Your Identity Identity theft and fraud protection for your finances, personal info, and devices. Get Identity Guard Share this: linkedin link twitter link facebook link Ryan Toohil Chief Technology Officer How Can You Tell If Someone Is Trying to Steal Your Identity? Identity theft is one of the fastest-growing crimes in America. In 2022 alone, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) received 1.1 million reports of identity theft — making up 22% of all fraud reports received [ * ]. From traditional scams like mail theft and shoulder surfing to sophisticated cyber attacks , hacking, and data breaches , criminals have more ways than ever to access your personal information and steal your identity. The good news: These scams are relatively easy to shut down once you notice the signs of identity theft. The bad news: Most people only recognize the red flags after a fraudster has done serious damage to their credit, assets, and reputation. There’s no way to permanently protect yourself from identity theft . However, cybersecurity experts agree that being alert and acting quickly can prevent you from becoming a victim. So, what warning signs of identity theft should you be on the lookout for? Identity Thieves Need Your Personal Information — Here’s How They Get It Identity theft occurs when someone steals and uses your personally identifiable information (PII) to commit fraud or other scams. PII includes data like your name, home address, passwords, Social Security number (SSN), account numbers, and credit card details. With even just a few of these details, a scammer can access your bank account, open new loans and credit cards in your name, or even steal your medical benefits. So, how do criminals gain access to your information in the first place? Here are a few of the ways that scammers try to steal your PII: Data breaches on the Dark Web. Companies from Facebook to T-Mobile, Equifax, and more have been “breached” by hackers who sell personal information on the Dark Web. In some cases, a valid U.S driver's license can be purchased for as little as $150 [ * ]. Phishing emails, texts, or calls. Identity thieves often use phishing emails, calls, or texts (called smishing ) to trick people into giving up personal and financial information. These messages look legitimate and appear to come from someone you trust — such as a bank, online retailer, or friend. But any information you supply to the scammer can be used to steal your identity. Malware and hacking. Hackers will often try to trick you into clicking on a link or downloading an attachment that infects your device with malware. This “malicious software” searches for your sensitive information and can even share every keystroke you make with the scammer (such as when you’re entering passwords). Hackers can also hack Wi-Fi networks to intercept your data (such as credit card numbers ). Shoulder surfing. Some scammers will wait in public to try and spy on you as you access your online accounts or enter your credit card information and PIN. Physical theft. Identity thieves can also get your personal and financial information by stealing your wallet or purse, or emptying out your mailbox. They look for credit cards, bank documents, passports, identification cards, authentication tokens, and other sensitive information. 📚 Related: How To Protect Your Personal Information Online and In Real Life → 21 Warning Signs of Identity Theft: How To Spot a Scammer Unfamiliar charges on your bank statements New credit cards or loans in your name Fraud alerts from your bank or credit monitoring service Unfamiliar hard inquiries on your credit report You’re denied new credit A sudden drop in your credit score Strange calls or letters from debt collectors Notice of a tax return in your name You receive tax forms regarding unfamiliar jobs There’s a warrant out for your arrest You receive unfamiliar medical bills in the mail You’ve hit your limit on health benefits Someone steals your wallet or ID Your bills and other mail go missing Strange packages arrive at your home Your utilities are shut off You’re locked out of your email You receive unprompted login verification emails You’re alerted of a potential data breach A slew of spam emails and robocalls Your child is denied government benefits If you see any of these warning signs, you could be at risk of identity theft. Here's what to look out for and what to do: 1. Unfamiliar charges on your bank statements The goal for most identity thieves is simple: steal enough information to get into victims’ bank accounts and empty them. Financial identity fraud can cause serious damage and take months or even years to recover from. As soon as you get your monthly account statements (or credit card statements), review them carefully for unfamiliar transactions, strange withdrawals, or other suspicious activity. What to do if you notice unfamiliar bank charges: Report any unfamiliar charge or withdrawal to your bank’s fraud department immediately. You may also be able to set a transaction limit so that you’ll get an alert if anyone tries to take out a large amount of money from your account. If you’ve been the victim of financial fraud (or any type of identity fraud), follow the steps in the fraud victim’s recovery plan . 📚 Related: Do You Really Need Identity Theft Protection? → 2. New credit cards or loans in your name Scammers will try to take out credit in your name and leave you with the bill. If you discover loans or credit cards in your name that you don’t remember signing up for, this is a major warning sign of identity theft. Card issuers and lenders will almost always notify you of new accounts via letter, email, or phone call. However, scammers have learned to circumvent this process by using a different address on the application or even submitting a change-of-address request in your name with the USPS (United States Postal Service). This is why regularly monitoring your credit report is so important. What to do if a new credit card or loan was issued in your name: Go to AnnualCreditReport.com and order a free credit report from the three major credit agencies — Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion. If you notice unfamiliar requests for a new line of credit, contact your bank or credit card company right away to inform them of identity theft. 3. Fraud alerts from your bank or credit monitoring service Your bank or credit card issuer might send you an alert about potential fraud. Don’t ignore these. Financial institutions spend millions of dollars on fraud detection and prevention to protect your accounts. However, never blindly trust text messages or emails claiming to be from your bank. Scammers will sometimes send phishing texts claiming your account has been compromised. But when you enter your account information, you’re really giving the scammer access to your funds. What to do if you get a fraud alert from your bank: Contact your bank directly using the phone number on the back of your card or the one listed on their official website. Ask to speak to the fraud department, and they’ll take you through the necessary steps to secure your account. Zoom out: Sign up for a credit monitoring service that will check for fraud and suspicious activity. Services like Aura and Identity Guard will monitor your bank account, credit reports, and credit cards and alert you in near-real time if there are any signs of fraud. 4. Hard credit inquiries on your credit report that you didn’t request A hard inquiry is made when a lender or company checks your credit history before giving you a loan. Since you only initiate each hard inquiry when doing things like applying for a new credit card or a mortgage, you should be familiar with each one that appears on your credit report. If you see any unfamiliar hard inquiries, someone else may be using your information to apply for credit or a loan. What to do if you see unfamiliar hard inquiries on your credit report: Contact your bank and credit card company to inform them that someone's using your identity. You’ll also need to contact the credit reporting bureaus to remove fraudulent information and repair your credit score . You might also want to consider freezing your credit to prevent further fraud. 5. You’re denied new credit Sometimes, you may not notice that your identity has been stolen until you apply for a new line of credit or a loan. If you’re 99% sure you should have been qualified for the loan and then get rejected, this could be a sign of identity theft. What to do when you’re denied credit: First, review your credit report for any suspicious activity. If you find any, contact your bank and credit card company immediately. Then, work with the credit bureaus and any impacted companies to repair your credit score. 📚 Related: Was Your SSN Found on the Dark Web? Do This → 6. There’s a sudden drop in your credit score Your credit score can act as a “health check” for your financial life. If anyone has been abusing your credit, taking out new loans, or missing payments, your credit score will tell you. What to do if your credit score suddenly drops: Investigate any sudden changes in your credit score — especially if you haven’t done anything that would impact it. This could be a warning sign of identity theft, but it could also alert you to mistakes in your credit history or debts you forgot about. 7. You get strange calls or letters from debt collectors If you’re getting unexpected calls or letters from collection agencies about accounts you never opened, don’t ignore them. There’s a good chance that a thief has racked up credit card bills in your name or has taken out a loan using your personal information. This usually happens when a fraudster steals your credit card or hacks your bank account. What to do when you get hounded by debt collectors: The first thing to do is check your credit report for unfamiliar accounts. If you find any, contact one of the three major credit bureaus to place a fraud alert on your credit report (by law, the bureau you contact needs to inform the other two of the alert). Here’s how to get in touch with them: Equifax : 800-525-6285 or Equifax.com Experian : 888-397-3742 or Experian.com TransUnion : 800-680-7289 or TransUnion.com Next, contact any companies or lenders where the criminal opened a fraudulent account and close the account immediately. 📚 Related: Is Home Title Theft Real? 5 Ways To Protect Yourself → 8. The IRS informs you that someone filed a tax return in your name A clear sign that your identity has been stolen is when you get a notification from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) before you file your taxes. Scammers only need your name and SSN to file taxes in your name . They’ll often report bogus income to maximize the refund they can steal from you. What to do if someone filed a tax refund in your name: Contact the IRS at 800-829-1040 immediately. You’ll also need to file an identity theft report with the FTC at IdentityTheft.gov and your local police department. Sometimes, the IRS spots the fraudulent tax return before the scammer gets your refund. When they do, they’ll send you a letter with instructions on how to verify your identity and prevent criminals from filing tax returns in your name. 9. You receive tax forms regarding unfamiliar jobs or companies Employment scams occur when criminals use your identity to get jobs they otherwise aren’t qualified for or wouldn’t get due to a background check. It can be incredibly difficult to identify this type of identity theft . But an unexpected tax form — such as a W-2 or 1099 — is a clear sign. What to do if you see signs of job or tax identity theft: If the IRS notices signs of fraud on your account, they could reach out to you with a Letter 4883C. This is a standard method for verifying your identity. Otherwise, you’ll need to contact the IRS immediately at 800-908-4490 (the specialized line for dealing with identity theft). 📚 Related: What To Do If a Scammer Has Your Social Security Number → 10. There’s a warrant out for your arrest Someone who has access to your sensitive information could provide it to law enforcement if they’re stopped during a traffic stop or brought in for criminal activity. This could lead to the police putting out a warrant for your arrest. What to do if you find that there’s a warrant out for your arrest: Contact your local law enforcement agency with proof of your identity to show that you didn’t commit the crime. If the crime was committed in a different state, you’ll need to get in touch with the law enforcement agency there. (For example, if you live in Ohio and your identity was used in Florida, you’ll need to contact police in Florida.) 📚 Related: How To Prevent Identity Theft Online and In Real Life → 11. You receive unfamiliar medical bills in your mail It's hard enough to pay your own medical bills, let alone someone else's. Medical identity theft is when criminals use your PII and Personal Health Information (PHI) to steal your benefits, receive medical treatments, or get prescription drugs in your name. One of the clearest signs of medical identity theft is if you start to receive strange medical bills in the mail. What to do if you receive strange medical bills: Read each medical bill carefully to make sure it matches the treatments that you received. If you see any suspicious medical claims, contact your health insurance or healthcare provider immediately. 12. You’ve hit your limit on health benefits (without using them up) When scammers give a healthcare provider your personal information, they receive free medical treatment under your insurance policy. This depletes your health insurance benefits and can leave you with no coverage. If your health insurance company notifies you that you’ve reached your benefits limits (and you’re sure you haven’t), it’s likely a sign that someone is abusing your health insurance. What to do if you’ve reached your limit on health benefits: Carefully review your Explanation of Benefits (EOBs) and other correspondences from your health insurer and healthcare providers. If you see anything odd, such as names or treatment dates you don’t recognize, notify your health insurer and medical providers immediately. To keep your medical benefits safe, be sure to shred outdated medical records, insurance forms, prescription paperwork, and other documents containing your medical information before disposing of them. 13. Someone steals your wallet or ID Many of the more modern ways that criminals steal your identity rely on hacking and phishing emails . But a stolen wallet or purse can just as easily lead to identity theft. With just your ID or driver’s license , someone can hack into your bank account or run other scams. Even if you think you lost your wallet or ID, it’s better to treat it as if they were stolen. If you find them eventually, you’ll have a new card and know that your identity is secure. What to do if you lose your wallet, purse, or ID: Start by writing down everything that was inside your wallet and contacting each company or agency — the DMV, credit card companies, etc. Moving forward, minimize what you keep inside your wallet. Never carry your Social Security card or too many credit cards with you. Pro tip: Sign up for identity monitoring to keep track of your most sensitive documents. Identity Guard constantly searches for risks to your SSN and other identifying information. 📚 Related: What Is Synthetic Identity Fraud? How To Protect Yourself → 14. Your bills and other mail go missing or stop arriving Mail theft (or any unexpected change to your mail delivery) is a warning sign of identity theft — especially any missing bills or financial statements. Sometimes, identity thieves can change your mailing address so that your bills or statements are delivered to their mailboxes. Or they can just physically rummage through your mailbox (dumpster diving) and steal documents that contain your personal information. In 2020, a Memphis man was sentenced to six years in federal prison when several people in different states reported seeing him remove the contents of their mailboxes [ * ]. He even orchestrated a change-of-address scam on one occasion to prevent a mailed check from arriving at its intended destination. What to do if you’re missing important mail: Contact your bank, insurance, and credit card companies immediately and confirm that these institutions have your correct address. 15. Strange packages arrive at your home Receiving unfamiliar packages or bills in your mail likely means that someone has opened new accounts with your personal data and is using those accounts to make purchases. It could also mean that you’re the target of a “ brushing scam ” — in which Amazon sellers use your identity to create fake accounts and send you cheap products. What to do if you're receiving strange packages and bills: Contact the sender and inform them that someone has stolen your identity. You should also check your financial accounts for unauthorized transactions. If you find any, change your password immediately and report the crime to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). 📚 Related: Home Title Lock vs. LifeLock: Which Is Better? → 16. Your utilities are shut off Suddenly losing your cell phone or utility provider service can be a warning sign of identity theft. Scammers could have accessed your personal information and switched your utilities or services to a different address (while still having the bill sent to you). What to do if your utilities get cut off suddenly: Reach out to your utility provider immediately to verify your information and rectify the issue. If your cell phone service stops working, contact your provider quickly. Scammers have recently started using a type of hack called SIM swapping that allows them to take over your phone number . 17. You’re locked out of your email, social media, or online accounts If your passwords suddenly stop working for your email, social media, or any other online account, there's a chance that a thief has stolen your login details and changed the password so that you can't log back in. This is an especially dangerous type of identity theft as scammers can use one account to get access to others. That's what Kenneth Gibson did in 2018. Gibson's job as an IT professional gave him access to thousands of emails and login data. He used this personal data to open ~8,000 fraudulent accounts with PayPal and extort $3.5 million from his victims [ * ]. What to do if you're locked out of an online account: Immediately try all the recovery options available to you. If they don't work, contact customer support to help you. Once you’re back in, look for the signs that your email or account has been hacked , such as strange posts you didn’t make or emails in your “sent” folder that you didn’t send. Pro tip: Listen to your friends and family. If someone comments about a strange post you made or an email they received from you, they could be referring to something that a scammer posted or sent by hacking your account. 18. You receive suspicious login verification emails or 2FA text messages Two-factor Authentication (2FA) is a great way to strengthen the security of your online accounts by requiring an additional code or credential. If you receive an SMS containing a verification code you didn’t request, it means that someone else is trying to hack into your account. And the only thing that's stopping them from doing so is the 2FA that you enabled. What to do if you receive unsolicited 2FA codes: Log in directly to the site or account for which you received the 2FA code, and update your password. For added security, consider switching from SMS 2FA (codes sent to your phone) to an authenticator app instead. These app tools create new 2FA codes every 30 seconds or so, which makes it much harder for a hacker to get into your account. 19. You’re alerted of a potential data breach There’s a good chance that your personal information was leaked online as part of a recent data breach. Nearly 50% of U.S. companies suffered a data breach in the past year alone [ * ], with billions of PII — ranging from passwords to credit card accounts to SSNs — leaked to the Dark Web. This information can give scammers access to your email, social media, or even bank accounts. Even worse, according to a Google survey, only 45% of Americans say they would change their passwords after a data breach [ * ]. What to do if you’re the victim of a data breach: The second you get the notification of the breach, update your passwords right away. If you use the same password across different sites, you need to update all of them to be unique and secure. A password manager can make this much easier by storing all your passwords in a secure location. Some password managers will even alert you if an account has been compromised in a data breach. 20. You start getting an increased amount of spam emails and robocalls It's easy to ignore telemarketers and robocalls marked " scam likely " on your caller ID. But if you're getting these calls a lot, it could be a sign of a bigger problem. Not only does it make you more vulnerable to phishing and social engineering attacks , but it means that your information is readily available to scammers and criminals. What to do if you receive spam calls or emails: The best thing you can do in response to spam calls, emails, and texts is to ignore them. Any response is enough to make you a target for identity theft and scams. You can also report scam emails and texts that claim to come from major companies or government agencies. For example, if you receive a scam email claiming to be from the IRS, you can forward the full email to phishing@irs.gov. Most government agencies and companies will have a similar email address you can use. If you’re reporting a spam call or text message, be sure to also include: The phone number from which you were called or messaged. The number you were instructed to call back. A brief description of the conversation or message. In all cases, don’t use phone numbers given out during unsolicited calls. Instead, always reach out through the official numbers and communication channels listed on a company or agency’s website. 21. Your child is denied government benefits (child identity theft) Identity theft can happen to your children as well as to you. More than 1.25 million children were the victims of child identity theft in America last year [ * ]. Many of the signs of child identity theft go unnoticed for years and only surface when a child is later denied government benefits, unable to get a driver’s license, or can’t obtain student loans. If you apply for government benefits (like health care) for your child and you're rejected, it's possible that someone is using your child's SSN. What to do if you see signs of child identity theft: The best thing you can do to protect against child identity theft is to freeze your children’s credit. This will stop scammers from using your children’s clean credit scores to take out debt in their names. You can also contact the Social Security Administration (SSA) to check if your child’s SSN is being used elsewhere, such as for tax purposes pertaining to a fraudulent job, or to receive government benefits. Do These Warning Signs of Identity Theft Sound Familiar? Do This: If you suspect that a criminal has stolen your identity, follow these steps: Immediately freeze your credit with the three major credit bureaus (Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion). Report the crime to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) at identitytheft.gov — and file a police report at your local law enforcement agency for identity theft. Review your credit card and bank statements, and request a free credit report at annualcreditreport.com to look for suspicious charges. Update your online accounts with secure passwords and store them in a password manager. Enable two-factor authentication (2FA) on all your online accounts with authenticator apps like Google and Authy (not SMS). Use a Dark Web scanner to check if your account details and passwords have been compromised in data breaches. Replace all lost or stolen government-issued IDs — including ID cards, driver's licenses, and passports. Sign up for a credit monitoring tool to alert you of suspicious activity on your bank accounts. For example, Identity Guard scans your bank accounts for fraudulent activities and notifies you in near real-time if someone is using your information. The Bottom Line: Secure Your Identity The warning signs of identity theft are obvious in hindsight. But no one has the time or energy to constantly monitor financial accounts, online passwords, and PII. That’s where an identity theft protection service like Identity Guard comes in. Identity Guard protects your personal information and financial accounts with 24/7 credit monitoring and lightning-fast fraud notifications. And if the worst happens, you’re covered with a $1,000,000 insurance policy for eligible losses due to identity theft. Special offer: Save 33% on your Identity Guard membership. Related Articles Identity Theft How Does Identity Theft Impact Your Life? 10 Risks to Avoid Nearly 50% of Americans were victims of identity theft. But how bad is it? Worse than you think. Here’s what can happen if scammers steal your identity. Read More October 16, 2023 How Does Identity Theft Impact Your Life? 10 Risks to Avoid Identity Theft Car Buying Scams: What to Know Before You Buy a New Vehicle A car-buying scam is an online scam that targets people looking to buy used cars. These scams range from identity theft to curbstoning. Read more. Read More November 13, 2023 Car Buying Scams: What to Know Before You Buy a New Vehicle Get Started with Identity Guard Get started with Identity Guard today, risk-free. Get Protected Today

---

All of our content is written by humans, not robots. Learn More What is Personally Identifiable Information (PII)? Some things are priceless, and PII is one of them. All of our content is written by humans, not robots. Learn More By Aliza Vigderman , Senior Editor & Gabe Turner , Chief Editor Last Updated Nov 8, 2024 By Aliza Vigderman & Gabe Turner Nov 8, 2024 In This Article PII vs. Personal Data Your Rights Reporting How to Comply How to Protect Navigate to: PII vs. Personal Data Your Rights Reporting How to Comply How to Protect You’d probably be mad if someone stole your pie, but getting your PII stolen is much, much worse. What is PII? It stands for personally identifiable information, and it’s something that identity thieves and fraudsters are interested in. We all have PII, even babies! So all of us should take interest in what it is and how to protect it. Our identity theft experts put together this page exactly for that. What Is PII? PII stands for “personally identifiable information,” and it refers to any information that can identify or trace an individual either directly (direct identifiers) or when paired with other information (indirect identifiers). Here are some examples of each: Direct Identifiers Name Address Social Security number (SSN) Other identifying number or code Phone number Email address Indirect Identifiers Gender Race Birthdate Geographic indicators PII also includes any information that allows someone to contact an individual, whether in person or online. PII is stored on paper and electronically, 1 from filing cabinets at dentists’ offices to Facebook’s data servers around the world. Pro Tip: Companies like Kanary can help remove your PII, like your phone number , from the internet. Who Can Access PII? From 2019 to 2020, identity theft increased by 67 percent, according to our identity theft study . And since then, the number of identity theft victims in the U.S. per year has remained in the 1.4 to 1.8 million range, according to the FTC. And what is identity theft? It’s a crime that happens because people’s PII falls into the wrong hands. Many different people and organizations handle other people’s PII, and they also happen to be targeted by hacks, attacks, and data breaches because of that. Here are some examples of who might have access to your PII. Companies : Have you heard about all of the data that tech companies have ? Social media companies like Facebook and Twitter, along with search engines like Google, maintain a ton of personal information, as do companies that make the IoT products we love so much. Learn more about what PII companies keep in our privacy guide . Governments : Obviously, governments hold PII about their citizens, which is necessary for them to file their taxes, register to vote, and more. Credit bureaus : In order to track your credit activity and create credit reports , credit bureaus like Experian , TransUnion, and Equifax hold everyone’s PII. That’s why monitoring your credit with credit reporting services is a good way to prevent identity theft. You are entitled to a free credit report every week, and we recommend getting a report once a month. If you see any errors or signs of identity theft, you can dispute your credit report. However, even the best credit monitoring services can’t completely prevent identity theft, as data breaches can occur. Unfortunately, data breaches are pretty common. Even Equifax – one of the major credit bureaus – experienced a breach in 2017. Employers : Obviously, employers hold a lot of their employees’ (and customers’) PII, so businesses have unique responsibilities to protect this data, but we’ll get to that in a bit. >> Related Reading : What Is a Data Broker? Sensitive vs. Non-Sensitive PII Not all PII is considered sensitive PII (SPII). SPII is PII that, in the wrong hands, could cause the person: Substantial harm Unfairness Inconvenience Embarrassment Some data is considered to be SPII on its own, while other data is considered to be SPII only in combination with other information. Here are some examples of information that is SPII on its own: SSNs Driver’s license or state ID numbers Passport numbers Alien registration numbers Financial account numbers Biometric identifiers The following information is SPII when used in combination with other PII: Citizenship/immigration status Medical information Ethnic/religious affiliation Personal email address Account passwords Last four digits of SSN Date of birth Criminal history Mother’s maiden name Not all PII is sensitive, however. These are some examples of non-sensitive PII: List of people who attended a public meeting Stakeholders who subscribe to email lists 2 List of people on a softball team Protect Personal Information What Isn’t PII? Of course, not all information is PII. If it won’t put people at risk of identity theft or compromise their privacy, like someone’s favorite color, it’s not PII. 3 We see a lot of non-PII data when we look at the types of data websites and companies collect from visitors and customers. For example: Device type Browser type Time zone Screen size Language preference Those types of data are anonymous, which means they can’t be traced back to you. For example, even if a website knows which time zone you’re from, it can’t use that to identify your exact address. Millions of other people are in the same time zone as you are. Because non-PII data is anonymous, it doesn’t require encryption before being transmitted. How the GDPR Defines Personal Data The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is one of the most influential regulations when it comes to data privacy. Even though it is the European Union’s data protection law, it changed and continues to change the online landscape. Every website that has visitors from the E.U. must comply with GDPR guidelines – even websites based in the U.S. like ours. The GDPR promotes data privacy and personal data protection. Under the GDPR, personal data includes information such as: Names ID numbers Location data Online identifiers with one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural, or social identity of a person Like PII, personal data can be processed either electronically (automated), or as written records (non-automated as part of a filing system). It comes in many forms, including videos, audio recordings, and photographs. But note that this legislation only applies to living people, not those who have died. The GDPR also doesn’t cover data about companies, just people. 4 What Is Non-Personal Data? Just like not all information is PII, not all data is personal data. Non-personal data is any data that’s anonymized or pseudonymized, meaning it’s given fake names. 5 PII vs. Personal Data Here’s where things get a little bit tricky. We started with PII, but if you noticed, the GDPR focuses on personal data. Are the two one and the same? Not really, even though there’s a lot of overlap. Legal Differences The U.S. government defines PII much more narrowly than the E.U. defines personal data. While PII only refers to a specific name, address, birthdate, Social Security, or financial information (such as credit card or bank account numbers), personal data covers more types of data, like social media posts, lifestyle preferences, transaction histories, and IP addresses. So, while all PII is personal data, not all personal data is PII. 6 NOTE: Since the GDPR applies to any websites with visitors from the E.U., every U.S.-based website with E.U. visitors must comply. Personal Data Your Rights Surrounding PII While the E.U. certainly has stronger data protection regulations than the U.S., the U.S. government covers data protection at both the federal and state levels. Federal Federally, the U.S. has data protection regulations that apply to the health and financial industries only. For example, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act only applies to “covered entities” that store “protected health information,” while the Financial Services Modernization Act applies only to security firms, banks, insurance companies, and any other company that provides financial services or products. These companies must protect customers’ financial information under the Safeguards Rule. Outside of the health and financial industries, data protection is handled at the state level. State Each state has slightly different laws on protecting customer data and notifying customers of data breaches. California has the strongest data privacy laws, including the Online Privacy Protection Act, which makes businesses post privacy policies conspicuously on their websites. However, most states have weak or no data privacy regulations aside from data breach notification laws. To learn about the data protection laws in your state, read our article on data privacy laws by state . GDPR If your website has any visitors from the E.U., then they’re guaranteed certain rights. The GDPR covers these areas: Accuracy : People have the right to correct inaccurate or incomplete information. Data portability : Companies must store data in a way that’s easy to share and understand, with a straightforward and accessible privacy policy. If any designated third party requests the privacy policy, the company must give it to them, even if it’s a competitor. Right of access : Users can access their personal data. Right to be informed : People have the right to know how data is processed, including: The source of the personal data Why it was processed How long it will be held Right to erasure : People have the right to be forgotten and can delete information from websites, with some exceptions, such as if the data is necessary to comply with legal rulings. Right to object : Unless the company has a legitimate basis for using it, like a contract or legal obligation, people can object to the processing of their data. Right to restrict processing : Users can also limit the way companies process their data, such as when the data is inaccurate or the processing is unnecessary or unlawful. Transparency and communication : Companies must explain clearly how they process data and make it easy for users to request erasures, responding in a quick and adequate manner. Can Hackers Get Around the GDPR To Gain PII? If you’ve ever had a hacked phone , you know that not even an antivirus can ward off hackers 100 percent. Even iPhones can be hacked , contrary to popular belief. Hackers can circumvent the GDPR and utilize hacking methods like these: Brute force : In brute-force attacks, hackers guess at passwords, which is why creating long, complicated passwords is essential to your digital security. Data breaches : Again, businesses and credit bureaus can have data breaches, exposing customers’ PII. Man-in-the-middle attacks : Hackers intercept data packets when they’re traveling between the sender and the receiver to get passwords. Phishing : In phishing scams , hackers use social engineering to gain login credentials, like sending people fake emails with illegitimate login pages. Physical access : If a filing cabinet or data server center is compromised, hackers can access PII, which is why physical as well as digital security is necessary to protect consumers’ data. Programming-based hacking : Perhaps the most advanced hacking method, programming-based hacking means that hackers find and exploit system vulnerabilities to gain administrative privileges. Reporting Data Breaches How much time you have to report data breaches depends on your state’s data breach notification laws, detailed below. State Is there a data breach notification law? Maximum amount of time to notify customers of a data breach Alabama Yes As soon as possible Alaska Yes As soon as possible Arizona Yes 45 days Arkansas Yes *If it affected over 1,000 people and had a “reasonable likelihood of harm” As soon as possible California Yes *If it affected over 500 residents As soon as possible Colorado Yes 30 days Connecticut Yes *If the breach will likely result in harm 90 days Delaware Yes 60 days Florida Yes *If it affected 500 people or more 30 days Georgia Yes As soon as possible Hawaii Yes As soon as possible Idaho Yes 1 day Illinois Yes As soon as possible Indiana Yes As soon as possible Iowa Yes *If it affected over 500 residents 5 business days Kansas Yes As soon as possible Kentucky Yes As soon as possible Louisiana Yes 60 days Maine Yes As soon as possible Maryland Yes 45 days Massachusetts Yes 10 business days Michigan Yes 3 business days Minnesota Yes *Only applies to government agencies As soon as possible Mississippi Yes As soon as possible Missouri Yes As soon as possible Montana Yes As soon as possible Nebraska Yes As soon as possible Nevada Yes As soon as possible New Hampshire Yes As soon as possible New Jersey Yes As soon as possible New Mexico Yes 45 days New York Yes As soon as possible North Carolina Yes As soon as possible North Dakota Yes *If it affects 250 or more residents As soon as possible Ohio Yes 45 days Oklahoma Yes As soon as possible Oregon Yes *If it affects 250 or more residents 10 days Pennsylvania Yes As soon as possible Rhode Island Yes As soon as possible South Carolina Yes *If it affects 250 or more residents 3 days South Dakota Yes 60 days Tennessee Yes 45 days Texas Yes *If it affects 250 or more residents 60 days Utah Yes 20 days Vermont Yes 45 days Virginia Yes As soon as possible Washington Yes *If it affects 500 or more residents 30 days West Virginia Yes As soon as possible Wisconsin Yes 45 days Wyoming Yes As soon as possible How To Comply With the GDPR Finally, we’re answering the question of how American companies can adhere to the GDPR with minimal effort. For U.S. Companies If you’re a U.S. company, the GDPR states that you must do the following in order to comply: Audit your information for “personal data,” as defined by the GDPR. Inform customers of why you’re processing their data. Assess how you process data and improve data protection. Make data processing agreements with vendors. Appoint a data protection officer (perhaps). Designate a representative in the E.U. Familiarize yourself with your state’s data breach laws. Comply with cross-border transfer laws. 7 How To Keep Up With Data Privacy Regulations You’ll be happy to know that there are automated tools to help U.S. companies comply with GDPR requirements. The marketing company HubSpot, for example, has a list of the best GDPR compliance software to protect consumer data . 8 How To Protect Your PII Of course, businesses aren’t the only ones responsible for protecting PII. Here are the steps you can take at the individual level to protect your PII and prevent identity theft: Use identity theft protection . The best identity theft protection services scan multiple criminal and financial areas for your PII. Most services have identity restoration and fraud detection; there are even identity theft protection services for seniors as well as identity theft protection for families to prevent child identity theft. Don’t answer unknown numbers . If you see an unknown number on your phone, don’t answer it, and if you accidentally answer it, don’t mention any of your PII. Your best bet is to register for the National Do Not Call Registry to avoid these types of calls as much as possible. Clear your mailbox . Mail contains a lot of PII, so you should check and take out your mail every day. To secure your home while you’re on vacation, have a neighbor take out your mail when you’re gone. Destroy documents with PII . Even after you’ve brought them home and looked at them, before you throw out any documents with your PII, shred or tear them up. This includes any paper trails of transactions, like receipts. Avoid phishing attempts . Along with ignoring random phone calls, avoid opening random emails, text messages, or attachments, as these could be attempts at social engineering. Install antivirus software . While antivirus software isn’t a one-stop shop for protecting PII, it can detect most cyberattacks and network threats, greatly reducing your chances of identity theft. Use password managers . If you’re using the same password for all of your online accounts, then if a hacker knows one login, they know them all. Instead, create unique and complicated passwords for all of your accounts and store them with a password manager , our most essential password security tip. Need help coming up with a strong password? We have you covered with the Securty.org password generator . Protect your devices with passwords . Along with your online accounts, make sure to lock your devices with passwords or passcodes. That way, if you lose a device, the person who finds it won’t be able to open anything with your PII and steal your identity . We’ve created a guide to help protect yourself from online identity theft if you’re looking to get more information. Use your SSN sparingly . Anyone who’s ever lost their Social Security card knows the stress of having your SSN out in the open, but it’s not just the physical card you have to worry about. It’s normal for companies to request your SSN, but ask if just the last four digits will do, and check their privacy policy before handing it over. Be careful with e-commerce . If you shop online, check out the company on the Better Business Bureau website before typing in your sensitive payment information. Perform software updates . Software updates contain fixes to security vulnerabilities, so even though they’re annoying, perform them as soon as possible. Use VPNs on public networks . If you’re on a public Wi-Fi network (e.g., surfing the web at a Starbucks), use a VPN to hide your device’s IP address along with your web activity, as this information could leave you vulnerable to hacking. Add authentication . Finally, add two- or multi-factor authentication to prevent unauthorized access to your online accounts. TIP: To minimize the paper mail you get, subscribe to paperless billing whenever it’s available. This is also better for the environment — a win-win! The Consequences of Not Protecting Your PII The biggest consequence of not protecting your PII is identity theft , which can lead to difficulty getting jobs, loans, and leases along with financial losses. Again, our 2021 research told us that 32 percent of U.S. adults have had their identities stolen, which amounts to over 66 million people. While the consequences of identity theft are vast, these are some common ones: Emotional distress : According to the Federal Trade Commission, which processes identity theft reports, three-quarters of victims were severely distressed over the misuse or attempted misuse of their PII. In some cases, they had physical reactions as well as emotional ones. Inability to open accounts : While 38 percent of victims found it harder to get new credit cards, 24 percent found it hard to obtain loans, and 16 percent couldn’t open checking or savings accounts. 9 Loss of money : In 2020, losses from identity fraud totaled $56 billion in the U.S., with a $1,100 average loss per victim. 10 Not sure if you’re a victim? Check if your identity is stolen . Recap As in life in general, there’s only so much you can control about your PII. The truth is that data breaches are common, and companies aren’t always so careful with customer data. Even under GDPR guidelines, hackers can still obtain people’s PII and steal their identities. That being said, by utilizing best practices, you can lower your risk of identity theft and keep your PII to yourself. FYI: For more information about removing your PII from the Internet, check out our guide to data removal or learn about the five easy opt-outs to protect your identity . Frequently Asked Questions Given identity theft’s recent increase, we’ve fielded a ton of questions about how to protect your PII, and what it is in the first place. We’ve answered the questions we got the most below. What are examples of PII? These are some examples of PII: Address Birthdate Driver’s license number Email address Gender Name Phone number Race Social Security number What is the best definition of personally identifiable information? The best definition of personally identifiable information, according to the U.S. Department of Labor, is any information that either identifies someone directly or lets someone identify an individual when it’s combined with other data. Is a birth certificate PII? While the birth certificate itself is not PII, which only refers to pieces of data, the data on birth certificates, like the person’s name and birthdate, is PII. What is not considered to be personally identifiable information (PII)? Some information not considered to be PII is the members of a softball team or a group email list. Citations U.S. Department of Labor. Guidance on the Protection of Personal Identifiable Information. dol.gov/general/ppii U.S. Department of Homeland Security. (2017). Handbook for Safeguarding Sensitive PII. dhs.gov/sites/default/files/publications/dhs%20policy%20directive%20047-01-007%20handbook%20for%20safeguarding%20sensitive%20PII%2012-4-2017.pdf FWS. PII and Email Communications. fws.gov/irm/bpim/docs/pii_and_email.pdf GDPR.EU What is considered personal data under the EU GDPR? gdpr.eu/eu-gdpr-personal-data/ U.S. National Library of Medicine. (2018). European Journal of Human Genetics – Rules for processing genetic data for research purposes in view of the new EU General Data Protection Regulation. ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5838983/ LinkedIn. (2016). GDPR: The difference between Personally Identifiable Information (PII) and Personal Data. linkedin.com/pulse/gdprthe-difference-between-personally-identifiable-jim-seaman/ GDPR.EU. GDPR compliance checklist for US companies. gdpr.eu/compliance-checklist-us-companies/ HubSpot. Top GDPR Compliance Software. blog.hubspot.com/marketing/gdpr-compliance-software Identity Theft Resource Center. (2022). Identity Theft consumer.ftc.gov/features/identity-theft Javelin. 2021 Identity Fraud Study: Shifting Angles. javelinstrategy.com/content/2021-identity-fraud-report-shifting-angles-identity-fraud